patients: I need to know how the heart works for a school project.
Can you tell me please how many beats does a normal heart do in one minute. I am over 70 and my heart when I wake in the morning, and am still in bed, beats only 52 times a minute. Is that too low?
The hospital doctor said that I probably had mitral valve stenosis. Is this serious?
I am concerned about the occasional irregular heartbeat I get for no apparent cause. It happens about once a week for just two or three beats. I am a woman in my 20s and would like to know what it could be.
My wife has been told that her ' funny turns'  are due to PAT. Can you tell me who or what is PAT?
I have been asked by my specialist doctor, who looks after my dickey heart, to go for an echo test on my heart. I' ve had some unpleasant experiences with tests on my heart before, and would like you to tell me what is involved.
I am a 16 year old competitive mountain biker. Recently, after working out on a rowing machine for 2 minutes, my pulse rose to 320. My resting pulse is 45. Is this normal?
I' m a 57 year old male, and reasonably fit as I exercise daily with a 20 minute run. After running, while I am cooling down, my pulse drops from 140 to normal in ten minutes, but during this time I notice that I miss a beat every six to eight beats. Is this acceptable, as i would feel foolish going to a doctor if it is normal?
I am 50 years of age and a bit overweight. When my heart races as a result of an emotional upset, or when I walk quickly, I have an uncomfortable tightness in the chest and a funny feeling in my left arm. Could this be angina?
My heart keeps jumping! Every few minutes it gives a funny beat. How can I stop this?
My daughter aged 42 is suffering from pericarditis which she has had for ten months. She is getting injections of cortisone. 1 am very worried about her, and I' m afraid for her. Can you please tell me what can be done for this disease?
I get very short of breath when I walk up stairs. It has only just started and I' m only 56. What can I do to help this?
I am 86 years old, but do not have high blood pressure or cholesterol. My heart is good, but for a long time now I get breathless even if I walk a short distance. I have been advised to take little heart tablets, but am unwilling to do so if I can find any other way to overcome the shortness of breath. What do you suggest?
I heard a nurse in the hospital say that i had a ' tacky cardia'  just before I was discharged. I didn' t get a chance to ask her if this was serious. Can you tell me?
My mother-in-law had a heart attack 3 years ago, and she suffers from knee arthritis. Her doctor and physiotherapist tell her to exercise but she won' t. All she does is lie on her bed or sit and watch TV all day. My husband and I are fighting as I say she should do as the doctor says, but he says she doesn' t have to. What do you think?
I am 63 years old and have recently been getting pains in my back at about heart height. Is this a cause for concern?
I suffer from heart palpitations known as paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. These attacks are frequent and distressing, and a wide range of medications has failed to control them. One heart specialist has suggested heart surgery to cut the nerves in the heart that are causing the problem, but another has cautioned me against this operation. What do you think I should do?
Despite having a coronary artery bypass graft after a heart attack, I continue to get pain in my left arm and chest wall. Why is this so? I have arthritis in my neck. Could this be responsible?
What causes the heart to miss a beat now and then? Is it dangerous?
My doctor says I have an enlarged heart on X-ray. Is this dangerous?
My doctor says my weakness is due to cardiomyopathy. He has given me tablets but no explanation. Can you help?
I am desperately worried, because my doctor says that my daughter has a heart murmur. He won' t treat it and says I shouldn' t worry, but I can' t help it. How significant is a heart murmur in a 5 year old child?
I have an irregular pulse (1-2 seconds silence every few beats), and and I can hear the pulsation in my ears. Why would this be so? My pulse rate is 90 to 100.
What is a congested heart? I am told I have one. My nose sometimes gets congested, but how can it happen to a heart?
My grandfather is very proud that he has a little computer in his chest that he says is a pacemaker. He claims that he is the only computerised grandfather I have! What does a heart pacemaker do?
What I can  do to improve my circulation? I freeze in the winter.
I get pins and needles all over my body during the day, but especially in my hands. What could I take to help this?
I wake up with pins and needles - what nutrients could help this?
What are the nutritional recommendations for someone prone to blood clots?
What do you recommend to avoid deep vein thrombosis of the legs where the blood is referred to as 'sticky' ?
I' ve had a heart attack but my cholesterol levels are OK - what do you suggest I do?
Why do people have heart attacks - is it more than just too many fried breakfasts?
There is a history of heart attacks in my family. Can I do anything with my diet to lessen my risk?
I' ve got high blood pressure. Should my doctor be checking my homocysteine level?
My husband has been prescribed aspirin every day because he's got heart disease. Are there any alternatives?
What's your view on chelation therapy for preventing heart disease?
My 78-year-old father is on warfarin, and since having a stroke is rapidly losing his memory and focus. I want to wean him off warfarin and wondered about supplements.
The hospital has advised my wife, who is 73, to come of f garlic, CoQ10, glucosamine, high vitamin C, calcium and omega-3, as they conflict with the warfarin she is taking. What is your view?
What's your view on statin drugs for lowering high cholesterol?
Why do doctors keep worrying about my blood pressure. Is it really that important to keep it low?
What is the correct figure for blood pressure? Mine is 140/90 and my doctor keeps checking it every time I see him. He says it is alright, but this constant checking worries me.
I am a very fit, healthy and normal weight 32 year old, but my doctor wants to start me on treatment for high blood pressure. Why?
The nurse at work took my blood pressure, and said I should see a doctor. Is a blood pressure of 190/115 normal?
My blood pressure varies a lot. Some doctors wrap the blood pressure cuff firmly around my arm, and others do it loosely. Does it make any difference?
You constantly hear about high blood pressure, but what about low blood pressure. What causes this?
What is cholesterol and why should I avoid it?
My doctor says I have too much fat in my blood. What foods should I avoid with a low-cholesterol diet?
Would you please tell me in very simple terms, what foods I can and cannot eat with a high blood cholesterol level? I am very confused about ail this.
Are dairy products and sugar safe to eat? I keep hearing how cholesterol and sweets are bad for you.
Does fish oil help cholesterol?
My doctor tells me my cholesterol is high and wants me to take tablets. Can' t I just go on a diet? What do these tablets do?
What should your cholesterol level be? My doctor tells me mine is alright at 6.3, but a friend has been told to go on a diet at a level of 5.8.
I had a cholesterol test taken in a mobile unit, and the result was 7.9. The nurse told me this was too high and I should go to a doctor and ask for medication. I am a fit woman, and eat sensibly, and I don' t see why I should have high cholesterol and take tablets forever. What do you think?
Why do so many patients turn to alternative practitioners for medical care? I have found orthodox doctors marvellous, and they have saved me from a heart attack, and relieved my gout, but some of my friends insist on going to all sorts of funny ' quacks' .
My GP and specialist can' t cure my problem, and I have heard of a naturopath who seems to be very good, but my doctors have both said it is a lot of rubbish. Do you think it is wise for me to seek a second opinion from a naturopath?
I have recently heard about new-age magnetic therapy which used in conjunction with a newly discovered natural treatment, can regrow hair for those suffering from baldness and hair loss. What is the validity of this claim, and is it recognised by the medical profession?
I am concerned that my health may be suffering because I am not taking enough vitamins. What are the best vitamins to take?
Is Vitamin B useful? Should I take regular capsules to supplement my diet?
Is excess Vitamin B harmful?
Does Vitamin C really prevent or treat colds? My mother swears by it, but I' m not so sure.
Why do so many people use naturopathic treatments, from royal jelly to vitamins, for arthritis?
I am 65 years of age, and my problems are controlled by tablets, but I don' t want to take them forever. Have you any information regarding ' chelation therapy' , which I would like to use to cure my high blood pressure, high cholesterol and coronary artery disease?
What is your opinion of the treatment of gallstones by naturopaths? I have been recommended taking a few bottles of DTM medicine, followed by five days of drinking apple juice and eating apples, then on the sixth day at 6pm taking one dessert spoon full of Epsom salts in water, repeated again at 8pm. Then at 10pm take 100 mL of Olive oil mixed with 100 ml_ of lemon juice. Is this safe and does it work?
I recently read about Coenzyme Q10 (Ubiquinone), described as an energy-producing, heart-protective antioxidant. I would like to know your views on this supplement.
I have read that one should restrict one's diet according to your blood group, so that anyone with blood group 0 should avoid wheat and dairy products, tomatoes, melons, olives and cauliflower. Is there much scientific evidence to support this doctrine?
If taken in the correct dosage, is creatine harmful or beneficial to the body?
Meniere's disease is extremely difficult to cure, and doctors try many different medications. I have found a cure for the condition in myself, and for years I have not had any attacks of dizziness or noises in the ears. My cure is regular doses of all the B group vitamins. I would appreciate it if you could pass this on to your readers who may suffer from this distressing condition.
I have heard a lot about alternative medicine. What is it and how is it different from conventional medicine?
Is opting for alternative medicine is safe? One of my friends went for homeopathy and got complete relief from his health problem. I am a chronic asthma patient and want a rescue from it.
Is there any natural way to treat my kid from cold? My son is 4 years old and I am averse in giving him antibiotics at such a small stage. Any advice will be appreciated.
I am over weight and I want to lose my weight. Can acupuncture help me in losing my weight? Is it safe and effective for weight loss?
I suffer from headache very frequently. Every time, I don' t feel like taking medicines for it. Can you provide me some alternative remedy for it?
My sister is in depression since long. But, she doesn' t take the medicines regularly prescribed for her. Is their any alternative remedy for depression? Will it be effective in treating the depression?
I mostly go for alternative medicine for my health problems and generally get good results. Why do people spend more money on prescribed medicines, when the alternatives are available in a cheaper way?
Is dark chocolate good for heart? My brother recently had a heart attack. I got to know that a few squares of dark chocolate a day can reduce the risk of heart diseases. How far is it true?
I have seen many people wearing different types of colored stones. Are crystals effective in healing the body?
What is reflexology? I sometimes have pain on the back side of my feet. One of my friends suggested that it can be relieved by taking treatment of reflexology. How it can be cured by reflexology? Please advice.
Are there any herbs that shouldn' t be taken alongside medications?
What other natural antihistamines are there apart from vitamin C?
What is your view on aloe vera?
What's your view on black cohosh?
What's your view on cat's claw?
What's your view on cranberry?
What's your view on elderberry extract?
How is ginger good for you?
What's your view on ginseng?
What's your view on grapefruit seed extract?
Is hemp seed oil good for you?
I' ve heard kava described as ' Hawaii in a bottle' . What's your view?
Can kava damage your liver?
What is your view on liquorice?
What's your view on milk thistle?
I' ve heard that certain mushrooms are very good for you. Which ones are they?
What's your view on red clover?
What's your view on rhodiola?
What's your view on sceletium?
What's your view on sulphur?
Do anti-cellulite supplements really work?
Do pills that claim to boost breast size work?
How does light affect your health?
Can supplements help you tan?
Which painkiller is worse for you - aspirin or paracetamol - and is there a healthy alternative?
After how many hour from drinking an antibiotic can I drink alcohol?,I have a party tonight and I took my last dose of Azithromycin this morning. Can I have a few drinks?
Am I over weight (192.9) for my age (39)?,I am a 39 y/o male currently weighing about 193 lbs. Do you think I am overweight?
Aspirin allergy - is it worth getting a bracelet?,How much Aspirin can I take for my headache without causing any side effects?
At a doctor's visit, I hit my head against a box on the wall containing hazardous materials (used syringes, used needles...). Will I get infected?,Is it okay if I use the same syringe for my insulin shot? I need to take it thrice a day.
Been on antibiotics 4 5wks top high tooth dentist cld not get needle 2 freeze 2 extract in gum really hurt she said its the tissues hve 2 go bk? Plz,"I am unable to get tooth extraction, my dentist is unable to give me anesthesia. Wouldn't antibiotics help with this since it has been going on for about 4-5 weeks? Should I go to ER?"
Can Adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) cause ear pressure and slight headaches at the end of the day?,What are the side effects of Adderall? Can it cause ear problems or headache?
Can coarctation of the aorta cause poor growth in height?,"ECHO done today, PA says there could be a problem. I am waiting for the specialist's appointment tomorrow. What should I ask him?"
Can doxycycline treat an ear infection?,What are the side effects of Doxycycline?
Can vinegar help drain the sinus? I've been eating balsamic vinegar dressing with my salads and I feel them draining is that normal??,I have had sinus issues for a while now. My mom says vinegar would help with them. Is it true? I sort of tried it today...
Could chiari malformation cause pituitary problems or diabetes insipidus?,Can I take insulin for my diabetes?
Could homeopathy for acne help?,My doctor prescribed me Doxycycline for my pimples. How long would it take for it to work?
Could this med cause anxiety in a 12 year old?,Can I give some Aspirin to my kid for his headache?
Could you tell me why my husband has been sweating and vomiting after injecting 30 units of lantus insulin? What should I do?,I was recently detected with high blood sugars. Do you think the doctor will prescribe me insulin? Can I request him to give me pills instead?
Does age increase the severity of eds symptoms/problems?,I have a small penis. How to increase it in size?
Does dermonu work for acne scars?,Hey! I have been using Dermonu for about a week now. How soon should I see the results?
Extension from my last question. There's vaginal discharge too so ce I'm ovulating. Could that cause the itching?,Hey quick question. Is it normal to have itching during ovulation? Esp if there is a vaginal discharge?
Feeling frequent deja vu. I've had maybe 3 panic attack with in the past couple months that has left me a bit anxious and was wondering if it's that?,"Recurrent panic attacks, feeling of deja vu, anxiety. Lasting fora few months now. Is this something to worry about?"
Have neck/back issues for months & had muscle cramps in calves. Stressed. Have (anxiety) BP is somewhat healthy. Yesterday felt tingly in both hands & shaky. In 20s .. Now it's off & on . Any ideas?,I have neck pain and fever. Is this meningitis?
Hello, I have had an ultra sound of the testicles and the inguinal area. No trace of hernia or adenopathy. The results came back completely normal. My doctor looked at it and felt it twice. He said it is definitely not a hernia and it is just slightly big,I had my routine appointment yesterday and my doctor said the swelling near the crotch is not hernia. Ultrasound did not show anything. Is it possible to still have hernia or lymph node swelling if the ultrasound is negative for it?
How can someone's happiness level affect someone's health?,Can staying happy improve my health? What specific steps should I take?
How common is it to have physical anxiety symptoms without feeling anxious?,Breathing exercises are not helping with my anxiety. Should I go to the ER?
How do add and ADHD differ?,Are ADD and ADHD the same? My sister is diagnosed with ADD. So looking out for some stuff to read through.
How do I know if I have depression and anxiety?,Can CBT be used to treat anxiety?
How long does it take for herpes to break out?,Can using condoms prevent transmission of herpes? I have a bump on the corner of my lip and I am a little worried. A little help please?
How many tylenol (acetaminophen) 3's are equal to  a percocet?,I am allergic to Percocet. What else can the doctor prescribe me for my pain? Not sure if Tylenol would do the trick.
How much time off work do I take after an ACL reconstruction?,I need ACL reconstructive surgery. What is the recovery process like? How much time should I take off?
How should the drug methotrexate affect the cells of the body regarding treatment of arthritis?,I fell down 2 months back and my knee is swollen even now. Is this arthritis?
How to deal with someone acting childish?,My girlfriend is giving me a hard time. She throws tantrums literally every time we go out. It is embarrassing. What do I do to make her see this?
How to tell what I am having an allergic reaction to?,Can Benadryl help with an itching?
I am currently on minocin (minocycline) to treat my acne but I think I am getting itchy hives?,Is hives a common side effect of Minocin? Not sure if this redness is something I should be concerned about?
If I had hepatitis a, does that mean I can't drink alcohol for a certain number of weeks afterwards?,Can Hep A spread via sharing cigarettes or alcohol bottles of an infected person?
I get one or two acne erupting each month.How do I prevent them?Also the acne leaves scars on my skin. Is there any off the shelf product i could try,I have a healed scar on my leg. Would lemon juice help with it?
I got my period twice within 3 weeks, for the second time within 4 months. Why? I haven't been stressed or changed my exercise plan or diet recently..,Can birth control shot cause your period to become irregular? I have spotting and I'm not sure if it is related.
I had arthroscopic surgery on my left knee almost a month ago but it seems to be filling up with synovial fluid, should i go back to work or wait until i see the dr.?,How much does it cost to get an arthroscopic knee surgery done?
I have tinea versicolor in the testicles and tip of penis. It gets itchy and dry. The doctor sent me a salicylic acid wash. Makes sense?,I have itchy and dry discolored patches on the penis and testicles. Doctor thinks it is fungal infection (tinea) and prescribed with CeraVe’s Salicylic Acid Cleanser. Will it work?
I'm 16 and my left testicle started having somewhat severe pain in it, it hurts more than extremely when I walk and it hits my pants I can't drive help?,Does redness of the testicles mean cancer?
I'm taking anxiety and depression medicine to avoid panic attacks mainly & avoid er. Can i take more than 0.5 if i feel panic and 0.5 mg doesn't work?,Can CBT be used to treat anxiety?
Is 4 mg intuniv & 2mgrisperdal too much for a 5 1/2 yr old, im worried..His neurologist prescribed for pddnos & adhd?,What is the maximum dose of Guanfacine and Risperdal in kids?
Is aloe vera juice good for hypertension?,"Hey! Visited the doctor today, he said my blood pressure is 150/90 mmHg. Did not prescribe anything, just told to exercise and diet. Wondering if aloe vera juice would help?"
Is fecal bacteria really unhealthy compared to other bacteria when you are pregnant?,Can I take prenatal pills for a healthier pregnancy?
Is hypno-therapy dangerous?Are effects of hypno-therapy permanent? I heard they can be dangerous. Is it true?
Is it normal to have nausea and loss of appetite when on your period?,Can somebody be pregnant when on their period?
My child has low alkaline phosphatase level on his lab results. Why?,Can liver function tests detect cancer?
My husband has chronic itching w/ no rashes/hives.He has seen an allergist, dermatologist, acupuncturist, and therapist. Bloodwrk negative any ideas?,"Not sure what this sounds like: Itching for 5+ years, no rashes, no hives. Blood tests normal. Seen all specialists including skin doctor, acupuncturist, allergy doctor AND a therapist."
My six year old daughter has been on antibiotics over 48hours and started running a fever over 101 and she says her head hurts. Should I take her back in? Given antibiotics for sinus infection but has been getting stuff up when coughing. She has a history,"If there is persistent fever even after taking 4 doses of antibiotics (over 48 hours), does it mean it is not working? Cough is the same as it was earlier. Should we go back to the ER? She's  I can't see her like this. :( "
Q. Hi, I am almost 12 weeks pregnant and my food had tiny particles of plastic (by mistake) so I am worried; in case I accidentally swallowed some : (?,I just realized I ingested some shreds of plastic film with my food. Would it harm my baby? I am due for my 3 month appointment tomorrow. Should I ask the doctor?
Creaky voice. How can I get a more masculine voice?,My voice seems very high pitched as compared to the rest in my class. Is there a problem with me? What can I do to make it better? Are there any supplements to help?
Since I was a child my joints have always clicked but over the years it has got very painful special when it rains or I am cold? How do I fix?,I am currently 17 y/o. I have no past history of joint issues. I have started experiencing pain in my joints during rainy or cold season. Is it related to my childhood habit of clicking my joints?
Was treated for PID caused by BV only with one dose of azithromycin and injection of antibiotics. PID never went away. What should i do?,I have itching and vaginal discharge. Do I have yeast or is it something serious?
What are the causes of perianal abscess?,Hey! Wondering if unprotected sex can cause abscess in the anal hole? What else could cause it?
What does a doctor do in externsl cronic anal fissure and pls tell me the process of sugery of cronic anal fissure outside my anal there is one small?,I have bloody diarrhea for 2 days. Should I go to the ER?
What do you recommend to treat a severed posterior longitudinal ligament?,I am doing a project on the vertebral column. Can you help me?
What is mecobalamin? What is this medicine used for?  My mother is diabetic patient, does this medicine useful? Thank you in advance,Hey! And update on the numbness and tingling I had in my foot. My doctor thinks it is a nerve issue and prescribed me Vit B12 injections.
What is the cleanest/safest SSRI for general stress-induced anxiety?,Are SSRIs the best treatment for stress/anxiety? Which one is the best?
What is the definition or description of: activity modification?,How much physical activity is an adult required to do every day?
Whats a type 1 shellfish allergy?,Are there different types of shellfish allergies? I have been diagnosed with type 1. What does it mean?
What should I do if I have an allergy of sneezing when i wake up please tell me what type of disease or allergy it is?,I cleaned my room and started sneezing. What can I take for it?
What specific exercises would help bursitis of the suprapatellar?,Can I take any medication for pain due to suprapatellar bursitis? Unable to exercise. :(
What to do if I have hypertension, depression of lost love, completely broke. what to do?,I recently lost my job and the love of my life. The RN who saw me yesterday said I have high blood pressure. Will I be diagnosed with depression?
Which hormones are responsible for giving you a male features on your face?,Can I take some hormones to make my face more masculine? I just want to impress my girlfriend. :D
Which treatment works the best and fastest for aortic regurgitation?,I have chest pain and breathing difficulty. Do I have a heart disease?
Why does my arm always fall asleep? Like to the point where i can't move it at all,I have neck pain and arm numbness. Are both related?
Why do I have white pigmentation skin colour around my anus and extreme itching and blisters around the anus and anal cleft?,"Hey! I observed recently that the skin near the butthole is white and extremely itchy. Is it normal? If not, what could be the cause?"
Will taking birth control pills for treatment of dysmenorrhea affect my fertility later once married?,I have irregular periods and get severe pain when on my period. My doctor has prescribed me with Sprintec. My boyfriend is a little concerned of the long term effects. Will we be able to conceive once I stop it?
"35 years old female no heart problems, sharp pain in chest/heart. Only last a min. Hits anytime driving sitting takes my breath away, happening more?",How does a heart attack present in a 36 year old female?
A doctor prescribed voren supp 12.5mg for my 3-year-old boy for fever. Isn't voren used for post-op inflammation?,Can voren that is used for post op inflammation be also prescribed for a fever in a kid?
After I had intercourse with hubby I noticed slight fresh blood and burning sensation and urge to urinate. What might be the cause?,"I am 9 wks pregnant and just had some bleeding today, after sex. is it dangerous? Will me baby be okay?"
"After two weeks of oral surgery, my cheek is still swollen and I feel hard lumps on the lower part. It also itches outside. Help?",Is cheek swelling and slight itching normal after 2 weeks of oral surgery?
"Always use birth control, always use condoms with spermicide, always pull out with condom, but my period is late. Stress from college or pregnancy?","I always have protected sex but my period is still late, could I be pregnant?"
Any reliable blood test for ovarian cancer?,Can one detect ovarian cancer with a blood test?
Been having chest pains a lot lately especially when i sit in certain positions ?,Can anxiety cause chest pain?
Been having this tenderness and pain in my breast for almost weeks....Not pregnant too. What could it be?,"Hi! I am a 24 year old woman and I have been experiencing some pain in my breasts, both sides for a couple of months now. I am not sexually active currently. Why the pain then?"
Borderline changes to Brain MRI in 1 yr being referred to a neuroradiologist does this mean something sinister?,I am a 50 year old male and my PCP just informed me that my latest MRI has picked up some brain changes which weren't there a year back and has referred me to a neuroradiologist. Am I dying?
Both arms numb no chest pain just a lil dizzy. And a little heart burn I have gastritis and back arthritis.,"I have been experiencing some bilateral arm numbness, dizziness, heartburn but no chest pain. What could it mean?"
"Brain epidermoid, is it the same as a  meningioma tumor the difference between the two       3cm brain stem / 8cm front lobe?",Is a brain epidermoid and a meningioma one and the same thing?
Bright red blood on TP after first wipe after BM; then other wipes no more blood. I drink way to much pop and very little water...if that matters. ?,I had red colored tissue like thing in my stool. What could it be?
C4-5 right uncovertebral osteophyte/disc bulge complex  broad disc bulge right neural foraminal stenosis & abutment of ventral cervical cord. Meaning?,"Can a simple injury to the neck, I bumped into someone the other day, can it lead to visible changes on an MRI?"
Can a menstrual blood clot travel to your heart or lungs like other blood clots can?,"I am really scared about blood clots, can a clot from my period cause a stroke or an embolism?"
Can Celiac Disease mimic MS even after being treated with a strict gluten-free diet? Could my untreated Celiac have caused my brain lesions?,Does a strict gluten free diet help in complete control of Celiac disease?
Can fibroadenomas turn into breast cancer?,Are fibroadenomas malignant?
Can kidney polycystic be cured?,Can polycystic ovarian disease be cured?
Can one get rid of type 2 diabetes with exercise and a good diet?,Is it imperative that one takes medication for Type 2 diabetes control or is diet and exercise modification enough?
Can you please tell me why it's important to promote healthy eating for children and young people?,"Can't healthy eating be inculcated at a later age, say adulthood or should ir be started at a young age?"
Can you tell me how is an echocardiography performed?,"I have an Echocardiography scheduled for tomorrow, I am a bit worried, could you please walk me through the process for some peace of mind?"
Can you tell me the names of health care institutions or pharmacies known for compounding voriconazole 1% eye drops solution ?,How can I find any good health care institutions or pharmacies known for compounding voriconazole 1% eye drops solution ?
Could my sinus allergies make it hard to breathe?,Are simple allergies associated with breathing issues too?
"Could the symptoms of caffeine overdose will remain more than 2 month, even if we already stop the intake of caffeine?",How long do the symptoms of caffeine overdose stay for?
Could walking on a soft mattress contribute to bowlegged-ness?,"I think my son might be developing some bow legs, could walking on soft mattresses have anything to do with it?"
"Dear Dr, feeling in my eyes lights are too bright feel dizzy with very sore sides of neck front and tight jaw knot in back of neck sleep apnea 6 weeks?","Been having a headache, dizziness and some photophobia recently, what could it be?"
Does anyone know what to do with a child around the age of 13 who suffers from serious anxiety?,Does anxiety present differently in teens vs adults?
Does anything during pregnancy cause esophageal atresia?,Can eating any particular foods during pregnancy caused esophageal atresia in the unborn baby?
Does breastfeeding only on one side alter a woman's risk of breast cancer in the non-suckled breast? My son had a preference so I nursed on the left.,Does breastfeeding actually reduce the incidence of brest cancer or is it just a myth?
Does cut on lip turn into white bump?,"Can a cut on the lip turn white after a few days, it doesn't hurt anymore, is just there "
"Does flax seed oil, about 3 grams a day as prescribed by my opthamologist interact with ortho trip cyclen or other birth control pills?",Do BC pills have any interaction with flax seed oil?
Does 'open' reduction with intramedullary nailing of tibial shaft fracture causes muscle weakness and slow bone healing due to soft tissue damage?,Is the soft tissue damage in  'open' reduction with intramedullary nailing of tibial shaft fracture severe enough to cause muscle weakness and slow bone healing.
Does stress causes hematospermia?,Can hematospermia cause infertility?
Does the herb kalawalla (polypodium leucotomos) actually work for autoimmune disorders?,Are autoimmune disorders completely curable?
Does vitamin D come in shot form?,"Can I take vitamin D shots instead of pills? It does come in injectable form, right?"
"Ejection fraction of gb very low. Diet stripped down to lean meats, fruits, vegs. Reflux in throat that is constant yet varies in intensity. Related?","Are a low ejection fraction, gastric reflux and a diet of lean meats, fruits and veggies related in some way?"
Female.Mom is 150cm and dad is 156cm.I was wondering if i can be at least 160-165cm tall?,Are there any medications I can take to increase my height?
"Got high level of hb & doctor advised me to repeat the fbc test in april2014 again.Now i got 17.6% hemoglobin level what food u recommend, names plz?","I recently got tested and found out, that I have a HB of 17.6%, what foods would you recommend for me?"
"Got period after 4mo and it lasted 11 days,which never happens.I've been experiencing dull uncomfortable on/off pain by my uterus.What could it be?","I missed my period for 4 months and now have very heavy bleeding, is that normal?"
Have an itchy rash after 4 days of biaxin (clarithromycin). Have taken this before and was fine. Should i continue it?,"I think I might have developed an allergic reaction to biaxin (clarithromycin), should I stop taking it?"
Have had hard cysts on my scalp for quite very long now. They grew from 1 to about 8 to 9 now. Out of which 3 have grown a little large. They are painless but is uncomfortable while brushing my hair. Although that is not my main concern. Have been treated,I feel like I have a cyst in my head. Could it be cancer?
Haven't had my period in a year I was using heroin and I had gotten myself help now I wondering when will I start my period?,"I haven't had my period in a year, what's happening? I know for a fact, I am not pregnant. "
Have pain up and down left leg and left foot. I've been keeping it elevated all day. I hope its not a blood clot. I also took three Bayer aspirins.?,I was diagnosed with a blood clot in the leg recently... What precautions should I be taking for the same? And how can I prevent it in the future?
"Having a blood test for neurological reasons, can it detect pregnancy?",Can pregnancy be detected by a routine blood exam or is there a more specific blood test for it?
Hello I am using neutrogena from 15 days ..Acne is not leaving what should I do?,Is Aloe vera beneficial for acne?
Hello I have back spasms that flare up every now and then. I've done heat and ice rotate. Tried naproxen looked at my diet and take vitamins?,I have been having intense back spasms and none of the basic measures are helping. What should I do?
Hey so I just had strep throat and should I wash all my sheets like are they contagious to my family if they use the same blanket I used when I was sick.,"Does a strep throat bacteria linger in your towels, bedding etc and can they infect other people around you?"
Hi dr I am 33 of age  mamarried have 3 kids my height is 173 CM my weight is 100 pounds. My normal weight according to age must be 75 how to get it .,How to loose weight fast after child birth?
How accurate are the diabetic blood tests that test your 3 month blood sugars?,Is HBA1c a very accurate test?
How can a person know if they have chronic fatigue syndrome?,What are the symptoms of A chronic fatigue syndrome?
How can a pregnant woman on bedrest avoid atrophy and blood clots?,"I have been advised complete bed rest by my Obgyn, I am 23 weeks pregnant. How can I prevent atrophy and blood clots?"
How can I get myself to have normal daily bowel movements when i'm constipated and haven't had a normal bm in almost a month?,Is constipation bad? I mean can it damage other body parts or cause any long term harm to me?
How can I get rid of ths pain in my leg?,Is pain in the leg a sign of a blood clot?
How can  you heal chronic knee bursitis?,How is chronic knee bursitis diagnosed? Is MRI always needed?
How common is it for somebody to get cubital tunnel syndrome?,How can you treat a cubital tunnel syndrome?
How does a doughnut get broken down in the digestive system if it has essentially no nutrients?,Can you walk me through the process of digestion of a doughnut in the human body?
How do you know the days you ovulate if your period changes every month and how do I increase my chances of becoming pregnant?How can one track one's ovulation with irregular periods?
How effective are punctal plugs for treating dry eyes after lasik? I am close to 1 year post op and artificial tears aren't helping.,Do punctal plugs have an increased benefit over artificial tears for treating dry eyes after Lasik?
How long would a person with cancer live?Is Cancer curable?
How many molds of my teeth would the orthodontist get before I receive braces?How does one decide if one needs braces or not? Should everyone just get them?
HSV 1+2 Serum test result- 1.77 & HSV Type 1+2 PCR DNA result NegativeH. Can't understand the difference between two results.,"How is HSV tested for, if an infection is suspected?"
Hymenal ring remnant... what is it and how can you fix it?Can a hymen be repaired once ruptured to make it look like one is still a virgin?
"Hysterosalpingography, can you tell me about this?",I have a procedure scheduled to check my tubes. HSG something.. Hysterosalpingography maybe. Can you tell me more about the procedure?
I am 24 years and breastfeeding my 9 months daughter. Can I make mammograms as last result 2 years ago was fibro cysts in left breast Should I worry?Can breast feeding worsen fibrocystic changes in the breast?
I am 35 weeks and 6 days pregnant and have been leaking a lot of clear fluid from my breast and also getting bad tightening pains in my belly?,I am almost 36 weeks pregnant and I have noticed a lot of clear fluid from my breast and lower abdominal pains. Am I going into labor?
I am 44 and my breast and nipples are tender what could it be?,Can one expect menopause at the age of 44?
I am noticing little red bumps on the skin near my labia?,"The skin near by labia, seems a bit swollen, does that mean I have an STD?"
"I am on penicillin for about a month now, a week ago I started seeing my period but by the afternoon it stopped. Can penicillin delay periods?",Can Penicillin interfere with my birth control pill?
I fast 16 hours eat 8. But for 8 hours I eat three meals. So should I keep my meals together so I don't start fasting or can they be spread out  ?,"Is it bad if a diabetic has an erratic meal schedule, say fasting for 16 hours and then eating everything in the rest of the 8 hours? "
"If global temperatures increase, will malaria spread to other areas?",I am traveling to Asia. Do I need to take malaria prophylaxis?
If I don't have the egg white cervical mucus am I still ovulating?,Is it imperative that one has egg white cervical mucous while ovulating?
If I use 4 tylenol (acetaminophen) 3 and 0.50mg Xanax would it be just as dangerous to use lsd and mdma a few hours later as it would be only mixing lsd and mdma? Ty,"Can one take Tylenol, Xanax, LSD and MDMA within a gap of a few hours? "
If the mass I have between my ribs is cancerous would it make anything on a CBC abnormal and at about what stage?,"I have a mass in between my ribs, I am worried it could be cancer. If it is, will it show up on a CBC?"
If you felt a mass in the breast for over 4 yrs now should I be worried?,Are all breast masses cancerous?
If your baby has already dropped does it automatically mean your close to having the baby?,Is labor close once the baby drops?
I got electrocuted i was replacing a wire on my car and i accidentally touched it with a screwdriver and got shocked i felt it go up my arms will be ok?,I just got a small electric shock in my arm! I am freaking out a bit. Should I see a doctor?
I had 2 chest x rays done 2 different times with portable machine I seen the image but did not see the ribs just lungs is that possible.,Can a rib fracture be diagnosed on a chest X-ray?
I had implanon removed and now have Evelyn for the combined pill. Had a few months normal but now bleed when wipe & shouldn't be. Why? See a doc?,Can hormonal contraceptives cause irregular bleeding? And spotting?
I had medial epicondylar release/ ulnar nerve decompression 5/9/14. When I woke up from it I had a sore throat still have a sore throat? I'm concerned?,How long is the recovery period for medial epicondylar release/ ulnar nerve decompression surgery?
"I had my meniscus repaired last week I'm not supposed to bear weight on this leg. I lost my balance and caught my self using this leg briefly,am I ok?",For how long after meniscal surgery should you avoid putting weight on the injured leg?
"I had unprotected sex 2 weeks ago, I started getting a brown discharge, but I havent started yet. What can it mean? I have irregular periods btw.",Does a brown vaginal discharge mean I am pregnant?
I have a black scar in my eye that I can see when I look at something that is a light color. Its been there for 2 months. Will it go away on its own?,I have noticed some black scarring in my eye? What could it be? And will it go away on it's own?
"I have a bruise circling a insect bite,is this common?",How to differentiate a simple bug bite from a spider bite?
I have a bug bite and it keeps getting worse. What do you recommend?,How do I know if it's a simple bug bite or a spider bite?
"I have a burning sensation on the top part of my breast after 2 days of having breast augmentation, is this normal?",What are the long term side effects of breast augmentation
"I have a full thickness tear/rupture of the flexor hallucis tendon after bunion surgery 3 mos ago.  It is retracted 2.5 cm. and I cannot bend big toe downward.  What are long term possible problems without ability of my big toe to push downward, to provide",What are the complications of a bunion surgery?
I have a lump on the back of my head. Its above the hairline in the middle. Its hard and unmovable. It does not pain. Should I be concerned?,I have a lump on my head. Could it be cancer?
"I have a painful sore inside my nose, it is red and rough. My nose is very dry too. What is it and how do I treat it? It won't go away and it hurts.","I have a red, rough sore inside my nose for 3 days now, and my nose is quite dry too! What could this be? It's quite painful actually, so any help will be appreciated "
I have a possible scaphoid wrist fracture. How can I tell without going to the hospital?,Does a scaphoid wrist fracture always need surgery?
I have arthritis in my knees and lower back. Normally when I get out of bed they are stiff. My hips ache and stiff are if I lay on my back at night?,"How can I manage stiffness in my knees, lower back etc. I do have arthritis"
I have a warm & irritated urethra and clitoris lately. I have to urine a lot. I think I have a UTI or a yeast infection. Can you cure your own UTI?,How can I differentiate between a STD and a UTI?
I have been eating 1200-1300 cal. (most days) and exercising 5x/wk.  I eat more on weekends but maintain my weight. But this week I gained 2.5 lbs!  I have been stressed and constipated.  Is that why?,"Can stress and constipation cause weight gain, in spite of healthy eating and exercising?"
"I have been experiencing abdominal pain, diarrhea after meals, fatigue and occasionally bloody stool. Could it be Crohn's disease?",Is Crohn's disease completely curable or just manageable?
I have been taking my birth control Amethia for 3 months but wednesday I took it two hours later then I would usually. Can I still ingage in sex?,"If on some days, I take my BC pills a few hours late, is that alright?"
I have l5-s1 slight bulging disc. One doc told me that I should quit squash for good and another doc said I can play again within 3 months. I'm 28?,Does l5-s1 slight bulging disc require complete bed rest for life?
I have membranous nephropathy and I see a nephrologist. Can the disease ever go away or am I most certain to eventually be on dialysis someday. Thanks?,Is a diabetic nephropathy reversible?
"I have  microalbumin urine 343.2 ug/ml ,microalb/creat Ratio ,random urine 402.3 mg/g creat, no DM,no HT,is this serious ? What 's to do next?",What can cause loss of proteins in urine?
"I have pain in lower right jawline, and also feel swelling under it. I must also tell you m on provisional diagnosis of Bechet disease?",Can Bechet's disease have pain and swelling under the jawline too?
"I have these painful sores on my stomach, and they hurt so bad. I think they may be boils or ingrown hairs. How do I treat these?","I often get these painful sores on my legs, stomach, underarms. Are these boils or simply ingrown hair? Can you suggest me some measures for the sores?"
I have TMJ em from india i want to ask is it is curable?,What are the long term complications of TMJ pain?
"I know there are alternatives for penicillin, but why dos we not use the others? Are there problems with them, or? (it's for a school project)",What additional benefit does Penicillin offer as compared to other drugs in the same category?
"I'm 33 smoker stomach inflammation gastritis I had an abortion 11 yrs ago, I can't get pregnant after 10 yrs why??confused","I am a smoker, and have some inflammation gastritis, should I quit smoking or simply reducing it will work?"
I'm due for my birth control shot on the 24 but I've been having uterus pain on the right side of my uterus I'm not sure what it can be?,After how long of stopping the birth control shots can one get pregnant?
"I messed up my birth control and started a new pack. When I took the first week, I bleed for 3 days. Now I am confused when my period will come again.","I confused the dates of my pill pack, and now I bled for 3 days in between. When should I expect my period now?"
I'm really scared of needles. I'm getting my blood drawn in a few months for the first time. Could they do something so it won't hurt?,I have a small bruise at the site from where blood was drawn this morning. is that normal?
I'm wondering what is the best birth control?,Can birth control pills and emergency pills be taken together?
"In my blood tests, I have high levels of trigliceridos(234 mg/dl), got (ast )(37.4ui/l), gpt (alt)(59.3ui/l), gamma-gt (52.3ui/l). Are these levels bad?","Are the following blood levels of trigliceridos(234 mg/dl), got (ast )(37.4ui/l), gpt (alt)(59.3ui/l), gamma-gt (52.3ui/l) normal or should I be worried?"
Is it normal. For your your gums to swell when your on your period?,Does any gum swelling happen during a period?
Is it normal to have a low sex drive after having three c sections?,Does a woman's libido reduce after 3 C-sections?
Is it possible for a person to survive metastatic liver cancer?,How is metastatic liver cancer diagnosed? What is the gold standard test?
Is it possible to have herpes and only have outbreaks in the anal canal and underneath the tongue but not on the mouth or vagina?,Should one see a local doctor for every herpes breakout? And will the same medication help with all sites?
Is it safe to get hysterectomy done before angioplasty?,Are hysterectomy and angioplasty dangerous if had one after the other?
Is it safe to take a probiotic while breastfeeding?,Are probiotics helpful in diarrhea?
I started belching and it smelled and taste like rotten eggs with symptoms of diarrhea watery vomiting what look like red blood and coffee grounds,"I am a 26 year old non smoker, non alcoholic and I've been belching, vomiting, have diarrhea and I think I noticed some blood in my vomitus. What's happening to me? Should I be worried?"
"I stepped on a rock that injured the outside of my foot.  17 days later, swelling and bruising down. Discomfort still. Will walking hurt the healing?",I fractured my foot and it is now in a cast? How long will I have ro wear one?
Is the candida retested after treatment?,How soon should one get tested for Candida after completing treatment?
Is there a difference between inositol pills and powder?,Could you explain to me the use of Inositol?
Is there a specific time for teens to sleep?,Does the sleep pattern of a teen resemble that of an adult?
Is too high a dose of birth control dangerous?,Is taking BC pills and emergency contraceptives together dangerous?
I stopped using accutane/isotretinoin in november. Is it safe to have a baby now?,Can Accutane/isotretinoin cause fetal abnormalities?
Is uristat (phenazopyridine) a good treatment for a potential uti?,Does Uristat help prevent a UTI if it is suspected?
It is true that we should not drink pills or vit. w/ a cool water?,Can you advise me some good multivitamins for a healthier body?
I used an over the counter corn pad on my toe which had a sensitive callus and now it has gotten much worse and swollen. How can I heal my skin?,Can an OTC cotton corn pad actually worsen the callus or is it safe to use?
"I've got a bench with a barbell, dumbbells, pull up bar, and a treadmill, what are some workouts i could do to gain muscle?",Could you give me some tips for muscle gain while at the gym? Any specific exercises?
I've had a cold for 1week. I just stopped antibiotics. Coughing up grey mucus sometimes. Dr isn't concerned. Should l take 2nd lot of antibiotics?,How is Strep throat diagnosed? Do I need to see a doctor for it?
I've never had hormonal acne until I started tilia fe b.C 4months ago. It's supposed to treat acne. Should I give it time or switch b.Cs?,Can Telia Fe birth control pills cause or worsen acne?
"I was diagnosed w/ Chlamydia on 9/29/2015. Treated the same day. Tested on 11/16/201 came back positive. I haven't had sex since the 1st test. How?","Can you still get Chlmydia after completing treatment, even if you abstain from sex?"
I was prescribed Trypsin+Chymotrypsin for tooth treatment tds for 3days. Can I continue these combination for a long period?,Is it dangerous to take Trypsin+Chymotrypsin for a longer duration?
I was taking amoxicillin for tooth problem. On the second day I started having full bladder with difficulty to urinate and clear discharge symptoms.?,Can amoxicillin cause difficulty in urinating?
I was zip lining and at the end of the zip line was a block of about 50 pounds. I was going at about 30 mph and slammed my heel in it. Now it's purple and swollen. What should I do?,"Is heel fracture very common, how does one get it and what are the treatment options available?"
Just looked in right side of nose. very red and swollen. Hurts to sniff or touch outside of nose. Its big like a polyp. Have clear discharge. Whatisit?,"I seemed to have developed a polyp like thing in my nose, its red, swollen and painful. Why would this happen?"
"Just saw marble size black lump in bm. Thought possibly just food so poked at it w/latex glove. Def not food, it's poo. Red blood lately too. Already did ibd workup (neg). Temp 99.5 for a month. Er?","I have a hemorrhoid and frequently get blood in stools, how can I keep it in check?"
"L/ l/5 laminect foot pain 1year later, foot doc say normal, neurologist say s/1 caus, ortho surgeon say MRI good, neurosur say nerv itself Whoright?","I have been having L 4- foot pain for a year now. Some doctors are saying its nothing, others are saying it's nerve related. What do you think?"
"Lately when i get frightened or startled, i feel the blood pump down my legs and then my toes start to really hurt. It aches for a long time. What is?","I have been having this numbness and pain in my toes for a few days now, what's going on?"
Legs are always cold even when I am sweating badly and feet and toes go numb. Why?,My feet always keep going numb and are unusually cold most of the times. What's going on?
My 6mo old niece has a pink round spot on each thigh in the same place. My sister is worried it's ring worm. It doesn't bother the baby any. Thoughts?,How long do most birthmarks stay for in infants?
My 7 yr positive again for strep and I'm leaning towards pandas. I was prescribed clindamycin 75 mg/5ml. Is this the right antibiotic? He did augm b4.,Is Clindamycin an effective way to manage Strep in a 7 y/o?
My bf fingered me possibly sperm on his hands. His finger was dry and all he did was wipe his penis wi/ a paper twl. We don't think any got on his hands. preg?,Can you get pregnant with oral sex?
"My complete blood picture results note is rbcs show hypochromia, microcytosis and anisocytosis should I see a doctor or not?",How does iron deficiency anemia present in a blood picture?
My father has cvid and parkinson's. Are there any tests that could show the likelihood of my potential children developing these same problems?,Is Cvid and Parkinson's genetically transmitted?
My friend thinks she's fat but she's really not and she sticks to low calories and if she eats something bad she burns the calories of by exercising?,"My friend has started obsessing over her belly fat! She doesn't eat well, how can I help her?"
"My girlfriend has aids and we had unprotected sex because she said that the birth control protected me, true?",Can birth control pills protect against AIDS?
My girlfriend woke up with a bruise on the end of her chin this morning. She never had it when she went to bed and never bumped it. What can it be?,"How long does a bruise on the chin, usually take to heal completely?"
My mums warfarin INR level has been fluctuating at an alarming level lately for no apparent reason?,What all tests should be done to estimate the correct dosage of Warfarin?
"My pain medication is making me sleepy and groggy, but I have to work. What else can I take?",How can one manage pain without having to depend on pain meds?
My period was black and sticky but is not smelling although have been having irregular menses for two years now?,I have irregular periods. Can I still get pregnant?
My recent blood test INR 1.12 APTT ratio 1.16 Beta-2 Microglobulin 1.50mg/L are they ok?,"I recently got tests for INR 1.12 APTT ratio 1.16 Beta-2 Microglobulin 1.50mg/L, are these levels normal or should I be worried? I'm just 1 please help me. I am scared. "
My son has a hemorrhoid and he is getting thin stool and slight diarrhea is that from the hemorrhoid?,Is surgery the only treatment option for a hemorrhoid?
My son's adult front tooth is very pointy.  Why is that?,Could there be a special reason why the adult tooth that my son has is so pointy?
My toenails are a yellow tone and has turned into a bump on my nail I was wondering what I could do. I think it may be a fungal nail possibly. ?,"If I have a fungal nail infection, will they remove my nail?"
"Painful scar tissue left under atypical mole removal spot on calf. Sharp, deep pain. Dermatologist recommended plastic surgeon. What will happen?",I have an atypical mole on my calf. Could it be cancerous?
Panic attack after smoking weed. Is this normal?,"I am having a lot of palpitations and some chest pain and I just smoked weed, is this a panic attack? "
"Please explain what it means to have a ""prominent nose""?",I don't really like the shape of my nose. Do you think I should wait or get surgery done ASAP?
Please help! What is the survival rate of malignant meningioma?,Is malignant meningioma curable?
Please provide advice on discontinuing hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) after developing petechiae on my arms. I have been taking hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) for 3 months and this just started.,Is hydrochlorothiazide safe for the elderly?
Question on a discharge--slimy and mid cycle?,"I have been having some mid cycle bleed, it's almost been 10 days since my period got over. What could it mean?"
Quick question about ketone test strips. If they are kind of pinkish before I use them are they bad?,How can I tests for ketones in my urine?
"Recently had bacterial vaginosis and a yeast infection. Still think I have bv- treated with metronidazole + fluconazole, discharge white. Thoughts?",Can BV and yeast infections persist even after proper treatment? I still think I have some symptoms.
Rectal bleeding after fissure op. Surgeon found 1 big hemorrhoid and some small. Banding done for big one. Foul smell & bleeding persistent. What is it?,Are rectal fissures and hemorrhoids one and the same thing?
School paper: how does a disciplinary and or criminal record affect the ability to get into professional school/medical school?,"Okay, so I need this info for my school paper. Does a disciplinary and or criminal record prohibit you from getting into professional school/medical school?"
Skin sticking out under my tongue. Is this normal?,"I've noticed weird looking skin sticking out under my tongue, is it something or I just happened to notice it today?"
So can two women have a child of their own?,How does conception actually occur?
"So, I have this itchy dark brown mole on my hip, it's sort of red around the edges, I have no idea what's causing it. Any ideas?",How do we know a mole is cancerous or benign?
Stubbed left pinkie toe a few hours ago. Quite painful. Now its swollen and there's a lump on the right side of the toe and it hurts. Fractured?,How long does a toe fracture take to heal?
Suggest me ways for late discharge during intercourse male age 42 yrs?,I think I have ED. Can you help me?
"Supposing that cancer has spread from an origin, is that secondary cancer treated differently?",How is the secondary spread of cancer diagnosed?
The cause of my first pregnancy miscarriage seemed to b a bleed sac above my baby at 6 1/2 weeks. Is there anything I can do to prevent this next time.,"How can I prevent having a miscarriage due to bleeding above the baby at 6 and a half weeks, like it happened last time I was pregnant?"
"Ways to get bilirubin down like blue lights,  etc?","I suspect my daughter has jaundice, how can we bring down her bilirubin levels?"
"Weeping blisters on top of foot,red toes...looks terrible.what to do??",Can you please help me with some measures that I can try at home for these weeping blisters on my foot that I've had since a week.
What amount of niacin flush should I take to clean my system free of thc?,Can a niacin flush help clean the body of any residual THC
What are my chances of getting pregnant if my boyfriend pulled out. But then inserted his fingers and penis back in my vagina  with sperm ...,"If a man's fingers or his penis has semen stuck to it and he inserts the same in the vagina, can a girl get pregnant?"
What are some non-medical things I can do help my asthma?,Any home remedies for asthma?
What are the chances of survival following a stomach cancer diagnosis?,What are the treatment options available for stomach cancer?
What are the five most common emergency surgeries in american teen girls?,"I am an average American teen, have been vomiting with fever and severe abdominal pain since last night, my mom said it could be my appendix. Will I need an emergency surgery?"
What are those tiny white bumps on the tip of my tongue? Can I spread it to my infant?,I saw some white bumps on my tongue this morning! Will i transfer it to my baby when I kiss her?
What blood sugar level is considered normal for people with type 2 diabetes?,"I have type 2 diabetes and my fasting sugar levels usually stay around 100, is that normal? "
What can cause neck vessels to become engorged and distended episodically that improves greatly with daily replacement doses (20mg) of hydrocortisone?,Can a high blood pressure make the neck veins appear distended? And do steroids worsen an uncontrolled blood pressure?
What can I do about low back pain and stiffness during and after bending over?,"Can you help me with some measures for lower back pain and stiffness, more so on bending?"
What can I do to increase my chances of getting pregnant? I also did medical abortion 5 months ago. I use the ovulation kit and no results. Plz help,How soon after a medical abortion can one conceive again?
What causes hungry one hour after meals with upper abdominal pain and burning sensation?,"Every time after I eat a meal, I get this burning sensation and pain in my upper abdomen and feel hungry again! What could it be?"
What causes these blister things under your tongue?,I have these blisters under my tongue since a few weeks now. What could be causing them?
What could I do to make my breasts bigger naturally?,How can I have natuarally bi breasts? Are there some exercises or foods for the same?
What does a medical physicist do during cancer treatment?,Do different types of cancers have different treatment modalities?
What does having an f2 bone cyst on my spine mean?,Is F2 bone cyst on the spine dangerous?
What exactly is the fastest way to burn off belly fat?,Are diet pills to lose weight/belly fat dangerous?
What happens at fetal heart ultrasound?,Can you walk me through the process of a fetal heart ultrasound?
What happens to a person at the end that has pancreatic cancer?,What is the prognosis of a pancreatic cancer?
What increases blood coagulation?,"I am suddenly having issues with increased blood coagulation. Though I am seeing a doctor, I'd like to understand how that might have happened?"
What is best position of a fetus at seventh month?,"Does the fetus take a definite position at the 7th month, if so which is the best one?"
What is Cervical cancer a risk factor for?,Can cervical cancer cause more ailments in the body?
What is done about migraines caused by changes in temperature?,Can anything prevent migraines that happen due to sudden change in temperature?
What is liver failure and how is it treated?,"My father has been diagnosed with liver failure, is it fatal, what treatment should I get for him?"
What is the definition or description of: diclofenac?,Is Diclofenac safe to use for a longer period?
"What is the difference between catatonia and ""emotional unavailability""?","Are catatonia and ""emotional unavailability the same thing?"
What's a good way to address back pain?,Can gastritis cause back pain?
"What should I do if I have counted 25 canker sores in my mouth, which are extremely painful, can you help me find out how to lessen the pain?","I have a sore in my mouth, how do I tell if it's a canker sore or a cold sore?"
What to do if I have a archwire that is not connected to one bracket of the damon braces?,Is it bad is my archwire is not connected to one bracket of the damon braces?
What to do if I have a very flat butt. it almost doesn't exist. what are some tips/exercises that could give me a nice butt?,Can you share some butt enhancing exercises with me? Some that actually work?
What to do if I have blood in stool?,"I am freaking out! I just noticed some blood in my stool, what does it mean? Please help..."
What treatment would you recommend for demodex folliculorum infestation? It appeared at the base of the nose and spreading down. Thank you!,Are there any home remedies for demodex folliculorum infestation or will I need to see a local doctor?
What would a spider bite on the tongue look like?,Can a spider bite be managed at home or should you always see a doctor for it?
"What would cause white tip of the uvula? Sore throat in morning, but goes away. White tip remains throughout","Can you get a white spot on the uvula in a throat infection, have been experiencing some sore throat early mornings for a few days now.?"
When after you conceive can your nipples start itching?,"Do nipples start itching, in fact do you experience generalised body itching during pregnancy?"
When can I give my babies the chicken & meat  they are now 8 months?,"How soon is it okay to start chicken, meat in infants?"
"When should I use an ovulation test? Morning, afternoon or night?",How can one track one's ovulation?
"Why does/would wearing an abdominal binder raise my blood pressure? Both diastolic and systolic increased by 10 points, pushing me into hypertensive range 135/105.",Are abdominal binders safe to use?
Why do I have chest wall pain and hard time breathing long after workouts ?,Can a strenuous workout cause chest pain? Is that normal?
Why don't you use a non rebreather on a pt that is hyperventilating due to anxiety?,What are some measures to tackle anxiety?
Why dose my chest hurt when stretching and coughing plus sneezing?,"I've been coughing and sneezing a lot, but why is my chest hurting so bad?"
"Why is my period blood dark brown, stopped after 4 hrs. Is this a period?","I have been having a foul smelling, itchy vaginal discharge. Is this yeast?"
Would 3 normal u/s and 5 low d-dimers over the course of 4 weeks rule out dvt? Even though leg pain is still there? No redness or swelling.,How can we rule out DVT? What symptoms should I look out for and what tests can be done?
Would there be symptoms if vertebrae in neck collapsed?,Is collapse of the neck vertebrae common? What are the symptoms one can expect?
"2yr old dry skin above lip and top lip irritated and or dry. Regular cetaphil atopic stings. Is it ok to put vaseline?  it's red, irritated. Other?","Can cetaphil give allergic reaction? I used cetaphil and my daughter got dry, irritated lips."
All of a sudden my ears stopped producing ear wax. What could be the cause?,Can I use q-tip to clear the ear wax?
Anyone have any dietary suggestions for a 10 year old with gastritis?,Is there any medication for gastritis for a 10 year old child?
A recent CT scan with contrast revealed two cysts on pancreas. What does this mean? Previous colon cancer and has esld. Also 6mm mass on liver.,I am worried because I recently went in for CT scan which showed two cysts on pancreas. Can you help me understand what it could be? Just a little background of my medical conditions- I have been treated for colon cancer and have end stage liver disease with a 6 mm mass on liver.
Are there any serious after-effects of a heroin overdose?,Can calling 911 help if my friend has overdosed on heroin?
"A while ago I developed a white clumpy discharge, itching, small bumps, and a strange scent. I'm six months pregnant, and I don't have an STD. Help?","I am 20 weeks pregnant and for the past 2-3 days, I have noticed some white clumpy discharge which has a strange odor. I noticed small bumps also and it itches really bad down there. I got tested for STDs last month and I was clean. What could this be and what can I do to treat it? Just worried that it might affect my baby. Any help would be appreciated."
Can allergies to tooth paste ingredients cause diarrhea and stomach pains?,Do you think someone can be allergic to toothpaste ingredients resulting in diarrhea and stomach pain?
Can a pedigree help you trace a condition that is autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive?,Can you share some disease which are autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive?
Can a person be allergic to febreeze plug ins? The scent of something?,"Every time, I use air freshener I start getting irritation, redness in my eyes and they start watering- Do you think I could be allergic to any of the ingredients of febreze plug in or could be some allergy to perfume?"
Can a urine test show you have kidney stones?,"I have some burning while passing urine and I have a history of kidney stones. But my urine test came back clear and normal, what could it be?"
Can cognitive behavioral therapy help someone quit smoking?,I am trying to quit smoking. I am trying nicotine gums for about a few weeks. I heard that cognitive behavioral therapy also helps in quitting smoking. What do you think? Do you think I should reach out to my doctor for this therapy?
Can contact dermatitis cause scarring?,I have a rash due to contact dermatitis as diagnosed by my doctor. I am worried about scarring due to this. Does dermatitis usually result in scarring?
Can i drink coffee to avoid a headache?,Can caffeine result in headaches?
Can I have a glass of wine while taking methylprednisolone for poison ivy?,"I am taking methylprednisone for poison ivy, do you think it is safe to have a glass of wine?"
Can sleep apnea cause memory loss? And negative thinking? I got diagnosed with sleep apnea but I am not sure how long I've had it.,"After the accident, I feel my sleep apnea has worsened and my memory has become weak and I am mostly negative in my approach.Do you think the head injury during accident might be the cause of all these symptoms?"
"Can taking DEPO shot make you irritable? Is it normal to have brownish discharge while on it, but no period so far? It's been 22 days.","I got a depo shot last month and I feel I have been more irritable after that. I have not had a period so far, just noticed brown vaginal discharge. Do you think it could be due to depo shot?"
"Can u do surgery13 weeks after initial injury to repair ulna & radius broken mid shaft showing poor bone healing & appears to be healing ""bowed"" (bad angle?",Is it too late to go in for a surgery to repair ulna and radius if the injury happened 13 weeks ago and the radius was broken in the middle of shaft and healing has not been going well?
Can you tell me about the most common genetic disorder?,Is it hard to diagnose genetic disorders?
"Cold worse after 10 days. Symptoms: phlegm, shorter breath, chest pain, eyelids sealed by mucus at night. Is it more than a cold? What do I do next?","Do you think I'd need antibiotics if I have symptoms of cold, phlegm, chest pain and shortness of breath for more than 10 days?"
Could ovarian cysts enlarge during ovulation?,I have ovarian cysts and today I have sharp abdominal pain. Do you think it could be due to ovarian cysts? I am ovulating also as per my period tracker.
"Cut my finger about 10hrs ago. It looked deep quickly cleaned and dressed it, now you can barely tell I cut it. Is it possible to heal this quickly?","How long does a cut on finger usually take to heal? If a cut on finger is barely visible after a few hours, like 10 hrs of getting the cut, does that mean it has healed? Just wondering if it can heal that quickly."
Does Adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) make eyes itch?,Can I take Benadryl for itchy eyes? I am taking Adderall for ADHD.
Does any one get cancer of the blood?,How common is blood cancer in Americans? I am worried that I might have blood cancer because my grandfather passed away because of blood cancer.
Does chronic laxative use lead to bacteria imbalance in the gut??,Can regular use of laxatives affect the normal gut flora?
Do people who suffer impaired cognition as a result of a brain tumor recover their faculties?,My grandfather has impaired cognition due to a brain tumor. Can he recover completely?
Do you think there's ever going to be a cure for herpes? Or are people already trying to find a cure? Do you think there's a chance of finding a cure?,Do you know the scientific reason why herpes is not curable?
Effects of drinking alcohol on the body fat?,Do you know if alcohol has any effects on body fat?
"Eyes feeling dry last couple of days. One eye became mildly red with clear mucus, next day the mucous was yellow with eye irritation. Mucous in throat?",Is it okay to wear contact lens if I have dry eyes and some mucus in eyes? Not much irritation in eyes though.
Flu like symptoms for about 3weeks. Now symptoms are gone. Have been having coughing fits now for 1week chest is really hurting. What to do?,I have chest pain in the middle of my chest. I am having cough and flu like symptoms as well. Do you think chest pain could be related to coughing fits?
"For people with arthritis, is it painful to pop knuckles, like hand knuckles?","I have arthritis and whenever I pop my hand knuckles, I feel sharp pain. Do you think it is because of my arthritis?"
For the 1st time a lot of clear colorless odorless liquid gushed out of vagina 2 days after sex with my partner of 2 years. Had my period a week later,"Can I expect some clear, colorless vaginal discharge a week before my period?"
"Had Yellow stool for almost 4months with no other symptoms,it turned to dark green 3days ago,no iron supplements Should i worry ?","I am worried about the change in color of my stools. My stool has been yellow colored for the past 4 months and now for the past 3 days, I have green stools with no symptoms and I am not taking iron supplements. Should I be concerned?"
"Have water fluid on feet and legs pretty bad, already on water pills....Have a hard time sleeping and fine it hard to walk... Should I go to the er?","I have been to ER for leg and feet swelling and they prescribed water pills. But I am unable to sleep tonight, what can I do to get some relief from discomfort due to swelling?"
"Hello docs, is atherectomy better than stent procedure?",Are there any complications associated with stent procedure and atherectomy? Are there any non invasive treatment options available to take care of plaque in coronary arteries?
Hello. I have bloody discharge and a little pain in my lower stomach and back. When I wipe after peeing I can see it and sometimes its mucus like..,Can UTI also result in bloody discharge along with other symptoms like stomach cramps and back pain?
He touched my vulva nd clit with his fingers nd am not sure if he had ejacultion or not. That was on the 9 th day of a regular 28 days period. Chance?,I am worried about pregnancy. My boyfriend touched my vulva and clitoris with his fingers and I am not sure if he ejaculated inside me but it was the 9th day of my cycle and I have regular cycle of 28 days.
Hi. I have been having ear pain in my right ear. It started on Thursday maybe and It just keeps hurting.?,Do you think sore throat can give ear pain?
How are baby and adult cartilage different?,Can some injuries to baby cartilage during birth affect the adult cartilage or how their bones will grow in future?
How can I deal with anxiety without medication?,I have been dealing with bad anxiety for the past few weeks and I do not want to take any medicine. Are there any remedies or simple things that I can try to feel better?
How can I heal a third degree burn?,Does third degree burn need hospitalization?
How can I help a depressed friend?,Are there any social groups for people dealing with depression?
"How can I improve my posture? I have at least 4 inches of head forward tilt from rounded shoulders. Remembering just to stand up straight, no.",Are there any ways or exercises to correct posture which can help with my rounded shoulders? I try to stand up and sit straight and I have 4 inches of head forward tilt. Is that enough?
How can I stop my hands getting chapped and dry ?,"Do you think I have eczema if my hands are extremely dry, scaly and chapped?"
"How can you tell the difference between hemorrhoids and colon cancer? Even though the symptoms are very similar, what are the major differences?",Can hemorrhoids lead to colon cancer?
How come so many medical doctors do not believe that adrenal fatigue is a real issue?,"I think I might have adrenal fatigue, what should I do because my doctor does not believe it is real?"
"How do I calculate the number of days that my period lasts? It flows for like 6 days, but on the 7th day it drops just little like spotting. Please","I need some help understanding the duration of my period. If my bleeding lasts for 6 days and on 7th day, I have very light bleeding, what would be the duration of my period?"
How do I stop my cold sore from peeling?   When a cold sore peels is it supposed to bleed?,"I have recently been diagnosed with oral herpes and I have a cold sore now and it has started to peel. I am using abreva ointment, not sure if it can result in peeling. Do you know what might have triggered the peeling and is there anything that I can use to control peeling? I am really worried that it may start bleeding, does a cold sore bleed usually?"
How do you know the difference between diverticulitis and colitis?,I am curious to know- Can diverticulitis and colitis be cured with medicines and diet or do you think surgery is needed?
How do you know when you are undergoing respiratory depression? Extremely fatigues,What are some signs that will help me know that I have respiratory depression? I have been feeling extremely tired.
How many hours does it take to get food poisoning with ice cream? (chocolate ice cream),"I am recovering from food poisoning and I do not have any symptoms per se. I am feeling like eating chocolate ice cream, just wanted to know how long after the symptoms of food poisoning have subsided I need to wait before eating chocolate ice cream?"
How many mg. Of potassium do I need daily from a regular diet to be healthy?,What are some good sources of potassium?
"How much water should a 60lb 10 year old child consume daily? We were told at least 64oz, but this seems too much for her to drink. She has eds w/pots",My 10 year old niece has Ehlers Danlos syndrome with POTS. Her doctor has suggested 64 oz of water for her but it seems too much for her to drink. Do you know what is the daily water requirement for her if she weighs 60 lbs?
How to treat l1-5 bulged discs significant pain?,"I have bulged discs between L1- L5 and it is giving me a lot of back pain, what can I do?"
How would doctors recommend I treat painful headaches or migraines?,"I have been getting very bad headaches on and off for the past 6 months. I also have some nausea, sensitivity to light. I searched online and I think I have migraine... Do you think my headache could be due to migraine?"
I can't see in the dark as well as others can? Do I need carrots or vitamin a?,Can deficiency of Vitamin A result in inability to see in dark?
I did not get my period for 2 months early this year. I consulted an OBGyne who is a friend of my brother. I also consulted her since I've been having brown discharge and I was alarmed. She said that I might have PCOS. She advised me to take Provera 10mg,Do you think brown discharge and missed period could be due to PCOS?
I eat vegetable curry daily (different types) every meal. Does this count towards my 5 a day and is this a healthy way of eating veggies?,I am looking for an opinion from a professional. I am eating 5 different types of vegetable curries. Do you think this is a healthy way of eating veggies and does this count towards my 5?
If 5 mth. Old baby has mrsa(the skin disease that causes boils) doctor gave her medicine but what soap to wash her with?  She also has eczema on skin.,"Is it serious or concerning if my 5 month old daughter has MRSA and eczema? I am really worried, she is so small and as such serious skin issues. "
If I have a 33 day cycle & I start clomid on days 5-9 when should I have intercourse?,I have PCOS and I am trying to conceive. My doctor has advised clomid. Just wanted to know when I should have sexual intercourse to increase my chances of getting pregnant if I took Clomid from day 5-9 and I have a 33 days cycle.
If I have sex the day before I ovulate when would I conceive?,"I got a positive ovulation test today and we had unrpotected sexual intercourse yesterday, I wanted to know if that would help in conception and when will I conceive?"
"I had parts of my colon removed. I'm fine, but I have diarrhea everyday and can't seem to find a right diet for me! what can I do?",Can my diarrhea be due to colectomy 2 months ago?
I had water in my ear so I used ear drops for swimmers ear. Now I can't hear and the drops are stuck in my ear.,Do you think it is okay to use OTC ear drops if you have swimmer's ear?
I have a flu with dry cough and in the morning it's phlegm. What cough syrup would be suitable? Also aches and probably a UTI so getting that checked.,"Are there any over the counter cough syrups that can help me with my dry cough? I get phlegm in the morning and I feel achy too, but I think it could be because of a probable UTI for which I am seeing my primary in 2 days but I need some relief from this cough, it does not let me sleep."
"I have a headache, dizziness and blurred vision and i just got into a fender bender, should I be worried, and what is this a sign of?","I was in a motor vehicle accident and has been diagnosed with concussion last weel but I still have headache, dizziness and blurred vision sometimes. Do I need to go in for another check-up?"
"I have an awful headache, what I should do?",Can overuse of NSAIDS result in headache?
I have asthma.  I take proventil (albuterol) but i still have trouble breathing--what can I do for this?,I have recently been diagnosed with asthma and my doctor prescribed albuterol inhaler. I was wondering how long does it take to kick in and how often can I use the albuterol inhaler?
I have been having lightheadedness for a while. Would a CT of head and an MRI with contrast of brain detect blockages in arteries?,I am worried about blockage in my brain arteries because I have been having lightheadedness for some time. Can a CT of scan or MRI with contrast may help diagnose it?
I have had bad stomach cramp with a few diarrhea for last few days . Is it an ulcer or flu?,Can the ulcers also give stomach cramps and diarrhea like stomach flu?
I have just had loop excision of the cervix. What should I expect from the histology report?,"I am a little worried about what's going on with my health. Recently, in my Pap smear, abnormal cells were noticed and my Ob/gyn has advised me LEEP (Loop Electrosurgical Excision Procedure) of the cervix and she said that some tissue will be sent for biopsy. I am not sure what I can expect from the histology reports? Does that mean I have cervical cancer?"
"I just binged on chocolate, but should I not eat the rest of the day to keep my calorie intake controlled?","I am trying to manage my calorie intake to lose some weight, but I just binged on chocolate, should I avoid eating anything the rest of the day to keep my calorie intake under check?"
"I'm a teenager who is not sexually active, and recently I started to get pain when peeing just after ejaculating. It occurs right when I begin to pee then after that initial pain I can pee normally?","I am 16 years old male and I have noticed some unusual discharge from penis but there is pain with ejaculation or while passing urine. I am not sexually active, I am worried that this might affect my fertility. Please help."
I'm experiencing frequent throat clearing since using ozone air generator...My guru calls it a healing reaction...What are your thoughts?,"I am allergic to mold and I have some mold at my home. Do you think I should get an ozone air generator? I heard that it helps take away mold and bad odor, not sure if it is true- Any thoughts?"
I'm on the Depo-Provera shot. Not sexually active. When I wake up and stand up I have a rush of clear discharge. Is this normal?,Can depo shot result in increased vaginal discharge?
I'm over 30 and I have acne only on my jaw line what can I do for it and could my husbands whiskers irritate and cause acne?,"Do you know what could be some causes of acne on chin and jawline? I am not a teenager, so I am not sure what might be the cause for my acne. I am 32. Can by birth control result in acne?"
"I'm snowed in and in the 4th day of an extreme sore throat, cough and possible fever. Swallowing is very painful, and the cough is constant tickle?","For the past 4 days, I have been dealing with bad sore throat with constant tickling and pain with swallowing. I have some cough and I feel feverish too. I cannot go and see my doctor because it's ben snowing constantly. Please help."
"In a mental health program im on pass and i once again used opiates, my addiction to them is to strong  and don't know how to tell doc?Withdrawal suck","Are opiates habit forming? My friend is struggling with what looks like opiate abuse, is there any mental health program which can help her?"
I need to know if there is more than one type of achondroplasia?,Are there different types of achondroplasia?
Is a cbct or an x-ray good enough for a dentist to know if there is a need for a sinus lift in prep for dental implants(I'd go for a cbct anyway)?,My grandmother is going for dental implants and she has an appointment for CBCT. Do you think it is enough to know if she would need a sinus lift for preparing for dental implant or will she need an X-Ray as well?
"Is hashimoto's goitre always going to be there, or is this condition reversible ?",Do you think Hashimoto's thyroiditis is curable?
Is it contraindicated to insert a urinary catheter into a patient who has a myocardial infarction?,I am looking for some information- Is it safe to insert a urinary catheter in a patient with myocardial infarction or are there any risks involved?
Is it normal for the area where you got your stitches to be hard?,How long do the stitches take to heal?
Is it possible to buy some ilosone (erythromycin estolate) without prescription?,Do you think erythromycin estolate can be helpful for my respiratory tract infection?
I splashed raw chicken juice in my eye last night with my contacts in. My eye is fine should I throw away my contact?,I have some redness in my eyes along with some irritation since last night. It started after I happened to splash my eyes with chicken juice. I was also wearing contacts. Do you think that my symptoms could be because of that?
Is salmonella a type of infectious disease?,How do humans get salmonella infection?
Is there a formal diagnosis for hypersensitivity to clothing?,Can I be hypersensitive to certain type of clothes?
Is there a link between dry eyes and dry lips?,Do you think dryness of eyes and dryness of lips may be related?
Is there a medication to control my anger?,I am 18 years old and I feel I get angry over very small things and it has started affecting my relationships. Do you think it is a medical condition that can be treated with some medicine?
Is there any interactions between drinking soy milk and taking accutane? Can i drink it when I am on accutane?,I have been using accutane for my acne. Do you think soy milk can worsen my acne?
Is there something wrong if your cum or discharge comes out brown?,What does it mean if your cum looks brown? Is it concerning?
Is using an electronic programmable stationary bicycle set for a moderate pace just as beneficial to the heart as taking a moderately paced walk?,Do you think moderately paced walk is better for heart health over an electronic programmable stationary bicycle set for a moderate pace?
I take Yaz (drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol) bc and I missed the last 11 days I had unprotected sex could I be pregnant and could I miss my period the following month from missing pill?,I am on yaz birth control pills and I missed my period. Do you think I am pregnant? I did not miss any pills and had unprotected sexual intercourse.
I took 4mg of Suboxone on tuesday cause I ran out of my methadone and was in complete withdrawl... I have a urine test on Monday 5 days later?,"How long after taking methadone, a urine drug test comes out positive?"
"I used a condom for sex. I checked for rips and it was fine, no rips. If it doesn't rip is it pretty much a sure bet effectiveness against stds?",I am just worried about getting STDs. I wanted to know if I am safe from STDs if I used a condom during sexual intercourse and it did not get torn or did not rip off. Please help.
I've never been pregnant so its hard for me to distinguish signs and symptoms so could clear/whitish discharge be an early sign...Not itching or burning?,I am worried about pregnancy. I have clear white vaginal discharge. Is this a sign of early pregnancy? I do not have itching or burning in vagina.
I was at an ENT for another issue and he said my adenoids are pretty swollen. I'm 20 years old. Is this normal? I never went back to follow up.,I am a 20 year old male and I went to ENT for recurrent episodes of cold and he mentioned that my adenoids are swollen. Will they regress on their own and is it normal to have enlarged adenoids?
"Mild uncovertebral joint hypertrophy c5c6 eccentric to right; mild t-spine scoliosis, bilat pars defect l foram stenosis at l4l5 - is surgery needed?",I need your opinion about my condition. Here is a brief history- I went in for a scan of my back and the result says... Mild uncovertebral joint hypertrophy; C5-C6 eccentric to right; mild thoracic spine scoliosis; bilateral pare defect at L4; foraminal stenosis at L4 and L5. Do you think surgery is the only option to deal with this?
"My 2 yr old daughter is regressing in speech. She had a seizure in dec. She has behavior problems (don't listen, acts out, mean, and ignores) why?",Can seizures result in behavioral issues in a child?
"My 7 year old suffers from severe seasonal allergies and has been prescribed daily doses of antihistamine, can you suggest any natural remedies?",Can seasonal allergies be cured with antihistamines?
My boyfriends penis turned black and blue under the head of it last night after sex. There is swelling but no pain. It looks like blood blisters?,Is it concerning if the penis gets swollen or blue after sexual intercourse?
My child is a sore loser. Any suggestions?,Do you think some counselling by a psychologist can help someone who has mood swings or is a sore loser?
My grandfather has lung cancer and has it in his heart. He hasn't been making a lot of sense and has been falling alot. The hospice nurse took him off diuretic meds.About how long does he have? I live in a different state and would like to be there?,Can lung cancer with metastases to heart result in loss of consciousness and delirium?
My mom is about 75 years old. Her BP and sugar r under control. Sometimes her urination frequency increases despite normal sugar. What could be problem?,Can high blood pressure and diabetes result in increased frequency of urination?
"On mini pill.  35 day cycle of last menstrual period.  4 day menstruation.  2 days after bleeding ended feel like i'm ovulating, ache in lower right.",I am experiencing some ache in my right lower abdomen and it feels like ovulation pain. My period just ended 2 days ago. I am confused if ovulation occurs while on mini pills and if ovulation can occur 2 days after the period gets over. I am on mini pills and I have 35 days cycle and my period usually lasts 4 days.
Please advise if it's normal or okay if i'm cramping during my fertile days ?,Is it normal to have abdominal cramps during the fertile days or when I am ovulating?
Please recommend the best beer to prevent hangover?,Do you know if there is any brand of beer that will not give hangover? I am going to my see my friends tonight and tomorrow I have an important meeting and I do not want to get hangover.
Please tell me what is adrenal disease and what causes these?,Can adrenal gland disorders be cured?
"Posterior vitreous detachments eye-p.v.d., what is this?",How posterior vitreous detachment of eye is treated?
Radiologist read my pelvic CT scan incorrectly I went in to ER for very bad pelvic pain and back aches. They ordered a no contrast CT scan of pelvis. The first CT scan report read right ovary is larger than left (i don't have a left) with somewhat heterogeneous,"I am a little confused. I think the radiologist in the ER ready my CT scan incorrectly. Actually, I went to ER for bad pelvic pain and back ache and the scan report read that may right ovary is larger than the left with some heterogeneity. But I don't have a left ovary. Do you think it is possible to see left ovary on a scan if I don't have it?"
Should I use a cream of benzoyl peroxide or a soap?,I am looking for some good way to treat my acne. I have benzoyl peroxide ointment and an anti-acne soap at home. Which of these two do you think would be better for me?
"Sir, my mom and i are unsure if i have herpes or a cold sore any suggestions??",I have a question. Can genital herpes result in cold sores?
"Sometimes I dream when I am sleeping, but I am awake, and know I am, but dreaming too. Kinda like hallucinating. What causes this? How can I stop it?","I am not sure how to explain but sometimes, when I am dreaming in my sleep, I am aware of dreaming and I am not sure if this is hallucination or something else. Do you know what could be the cause and how I can stop this?"
Still have a dry non productive cough nose stuffed but no fever and occasional headaches what should I do?,"Can allergy result in dry cough, stuffy nose, fever and a headache?"
"Stroke at 90 . At this stage, would a speech therapy help her?",My grandmother is 90 and she suffered a stroke recently. Do you think speech therapy can help her?
Well groups of people should not take aromasin (exemestane)?,Are there any conditions in which aromasin is contradictory?
What are the best remedies you know for treating a cold sore quickly without scarring?,I have a cold sore which appeared yesterday. I usually use acyclovir orally for it but this time I need some quick fix because I have my prom in 3 days and I want it to go away without leaving any scar. Can you help me with some remedies to make it go away at the earliest?
"What are the chances I will eventually get symptoms caused by my wpw? Left ventricular connection. Asymptomatic, diagnosed during a medical. Age20 male","I am a 20 year old male diagnosed with asymptomatic WPW. My doctor mentioned some connection with left ventricle, but I am not completely sure. What are the chances that I may develop symptoms due to WPW?"
What are the treatment options for frequent urination?,"I have frequent urination, can it be because of UTI?"
What can cause me to be lightheaded/dizzy?,"I am a healthy 25 year old but for the past few days, I have been feeling lightheadedness and dizzy, do you know what might be the cause?"
"What can I eat before my colonoscopy? They told me clear liquids, but what does that mean? Coffee?s not clear, but they said i can have that. What about orange juice or soda?",I am undergoing colonoscopy next week. What all can I eat and drink before the procedure? Are coffee and orange juice considered clear fluids and is it okay to have them before the procedure?
What can someone do for heart disease?,Are heart diseases fatal?
What causes a 17 year old girl to experience pain and also a feeling of bubbles popping above the navel area?,"I am a 17 years old healthy girl but for the past 2-3 days, I have been having dull pain around belly button and there is some weird feeling as if some bubbles are popping above my navel area. I wonder what could be the cause of this? "
What effects can I expect from velcade (bortezomib) chemotherapy?,Are there any better options for chemotherapy other than velcade?
What if delayed ejaculation is due to psychological reason? Is there any treatment,How do the doctors conclude that delayed ejalculation is due to psychological reasons?
What is a functional heart murmur and what precautions need to be taken with one?,"My friend has been diagnosed with a functional heart murmur, I am so worried about her.. Cn you please help me to understand what it is, what causes it and is it life threatening? I am sorry for so many questions, but I also want to know if my friend needs to take some precautions."
What is the definition or description of: hyphema?,Can you please help me understand more about hyphema?
What is the life expectancy for someone with mixed connective tissue disease?,How is mixed connective tissue disease diagnosed? What are some complications of this disease that may affect the life expectancy of such patients?
What is the prognosis and best treatment of DVT with pe?,"I am having chest pain and I am worried that it could be PE. Last year, I was diagnosed with DVT, that's why I am scared that it could be PE. Please help!"
What is this rare disease called porphyria?,I am just curious to know what this rare disease called porphyria is?
What kind of diseases or disorders could cause both symptoms of hypothyroidism and juvenile idiopathic arthritis? Or is one a complication of the other,Is there any disease or disorder that can present with symptoms of both hypothyroidism and idiopathic juvenile arthritis? Are both these conditions related to each other?
What might cause a slightly dilated common bile duct when all of the other organs look good?,"I saw my doctor and he mentioned that my common bile duct is slightly dilated. All other organs look healthy, I wonder what could be the cause of that?"
What treatment do you suggest me to treat endometrium and ovarian cyst?,"Can conditions like endometriosis and ovarian cyst affect my chances of getting pregnant, if my doctor diagnoses me with these conditions? "
When after a flight can deep vein thrombosis occur?,How does deep vein thrombosis develop due to a long flight?
When do you need to seek medical help with MRSA it's red swollen and hurt been kinda sleepy lately and nausea I'm a diabetic sugar been high?,Can MRSA result in nausea and sleepiness? Or do you think my diabetes could be the cause of these symptoms?
"When I eat food my throat tightens badly, seemingly from being twisted by a motility disorder. I also get chain spasms and chest pain. No acid reflux.",What could be the cause of tightness in throat and chest pain other than acid reflux and motility disorder?
When is it necessary to drink salt water?,Are there any conditions in which drinking saline water is recommended?
Whether cooking in coconut  oil add  or affect the cholesterol  and triglyceride levels?,I am worried about health of my father.  He has been diagnosed with high cholesterol and triglyceride levels. His doctor suggested coconut oil for cooking. But he does not like it's taste.. Is there any other option of cooking oil besides coconut oil which is good for him to manage high cholesterol and triglyceride levels?
Which body parts can be donated after you die?,Can someone donate lungs after they die?
Why is it every time I eat my upper stomach above my belly button is always bloated and full?? Then eventually I will release gas and it stinks mostly,Do you think eating spicy food can give bloating and fullness in upper abdomen along with stinking gas?
Why should I participation in an MS clinical trial?,"I have been diagnosed with MS a year ago and undergoing treatment. Recently, my doctor shared about MS clinical trials in my area and asked me if I was interested in enrolling for clinical trails, but I am curious to know how these MS clinical trials are helpful? Do I think I should participate in these trials?"
Would 176 RA IgM factor be considered a low positive for rheumatoid factor. What would be considered a positive level. My ccp level is normal.,Are any other tests needed to diagnose rheumatoid arthritis besides RA IgM factor and CCP levels?
"3wks postop GB removal.very nauseous, pain, and headache.getting an ultrasound tomorrow to check for fluids.could this be the cause?","My brother is experiencing nausea, headache and pain a month after his gall bladder was removed. I googled and read that some fluid collection around the operated site could cause similar symptoms. Is this true and will an ultrasound help detect it?"
A friend and i were fooling around  one night and we are both pretty sure the only thing we did was oral sex...Is there any way i could be pregnant?,Can I and my husband have oral sex when I am pregnant?
Are fabric softener allergies immediate or can they appear a few months after using the softener?,"I have been using a new fabric softener for the past one month and noticed some rashes on my hand. But, I also started using a new hand wash. How would I know if it is the fabric softener or the hand wash that is causing the allergy?"
Are there blood test or ultra sounds to see if u have globus pharyngeus? Have what feels like a lump in throat directly under chin to the right.,How can globus pharyngeus be diagnosed? Can a swollen lymph node occur under the chin?
At times it stings/strikes me inside my head? Is it cause of sleep or cold or something else?,I have not been sleeping well for the past few days because of a cold. Can this cause a sharp striking/stinging pain in my head?
Can a man with impotence or erectile dysfunction ejaculate during sleep and have nocturnal emissions?,Do nocturnal emissions occur in men with erectile dysfunction?
Can anyone heal from solar maculopathy?,How is solar maculopathy diagnosed?
Can gabapentin work for headaches caused by trimethoprim. I have started taking 100mg gabapentin daily for 4 days and trimethoprim 200mg twice a day.,Can antibiotics like Trimethoprim and Gabapentin taken together cause any major side effects?I am taking the Gabapentin for headaches.
Can having a milk allergy cause circles to form under the eyes?,"I have circles under the eyes. The only thing that I have started doing lately is drinking milk, can this be causing an allergy?"
Can weightlifting lower your immune system? Started yesterday for the 1st time in 7 months and the next day got a cold sore on lip,I got a cold sore yesterday after working out at the gym. Have you heard of something like this before?
Can you give me suggestions on good abdominal workout?,Do abdominal workouts strain the lower back?
Can you use emla (lidocaine and prilocaine) cream during the tattoo process?,Do tattoo artists provide a local anesthetic cream like emla?
Could you   get bird flu from a bird flying into your house?,Can I drink alcohol after recovering from bird flu?
"Daily meth use for about 6-7 months. Best way to gain back weight, muscle and fat?",Does using meth for a long term lead to weight loss in terms of muscle and fat?
"Dizziness and light headed, what can cause this?",I have not been sleeping well for the past few days and it is annoying. Can this be causing dizziness and lightheadedness.
"Doctor,  what is the average sperm volume of men in ml ?My husband's is 2ml.Is it too low volume?What is the average?",Hi doctor. Would 2ml of sperm volume be considered low? What are the normal levels?
Do diuretics take away your appetite and make you feel unsteady when you walk or stand up?,Are there any other treatment options for loss of appetite and unsteadiness caused by diuretic usage?
Do doctors have to do a biopsy to see if I have vaginal eczema or just a pelvic exam?,How will a doctor know if I have vaginal eczema? Would a pelvic examination be done or do they need a biopsy too?
Does muscle tenseness from antipsychotics go away after they are stopped? Do all other side effects go away or is the brain rewired retaining effects,How do antipsychotics rewire they brain to ease the symptoms? Do they cause side effects such as muscle tenseness?
"Effect of healthy food and junk foods, and what are those nutritious food,? . And impact of junk food, thank u",I am of optimal weight and pretty healthy. I mostly eat healthy food but treat myself to junk food once a week. Is that okay?
Excessive hair growth for a female? How much is too much?,I have been told that I have too much hair growth on my face. But I notice many others have hair growth on the face so I am not sure when it is concerning. Can you help?
Feeling naseous a week before my period and on bc normal?,I came off of birth control 2 months back and have been having unprotected sex. I feel nauseous and want to know if I am pregnant.
"For the past few months, around the same time every month I get moody, irritable, bloated, fatigue cramps. These symptoms go on for about a week?","I have noticed that my sister has symptoms like being moody, irritable, bloated before her period occurs. Why is that so?"
Freezing eggs at 24-25 years?,I read somewhere that some women freeze their eggs before the age of 30. Is that true and is it necessary?
Has anyone studied the positives or negatives of spanking?,Is it true that adults who have been spanked in their childhood have a higher chance of being aggressive?
Help please? I want to know what are side effects of taking testosterone boosters at age 16?,Is it safe to take testosterone boosters before 18?
Hey my ferritin level is 14.8 ng/ml ... do I need to take iron supplements ?I look pale and my MCV level is 84.4 ?,Does iron deficiency anemia have abnormal levels of ferritin and MCV levels?
"Hi docs, is it true that people are born with both male and female parts?",I read somewhere that every fetus is meant to be a female and then develops into a female or male eventually. Can you explain how that happens?
Hi doctors I am taking citalopram tablets 20 mg and having cold legs all the time any other medicines similar to citalopram side effect is worry me?,Can Citalopram and Zoloft interact and cause cold legs be an effect of their interaction?
Hi im 18 and I would like to know what I would use or take to get taller?,Can growth hormone taken in minimal quantities increase height after 21 years in a male?
"Hi.I went to cardiologist,did a ECG that shows st-t changes,did echocardiography and my heart its good but see some interruption. That's Bad? 27 years",Can you tell me if heart disease can pass from family? I have a history of anxiety and experienced chest pain. Went to the ER where an ECG was done. The doctor told me that there were some ST-T changes which is not very concerning but I am worried. Can someone get a heart disease at 27?
How can I deal with really bad morning sickness?,My sister is dealing with morning sickness and has been given medication. Is there anything else you can suggest to ease the nausea?
How can I get my eye to get better?,How can I help treat my eye and get better vision?
"How can I get rid of a runny nose, itchy eyes, nasal congestion and frequent sneezing?","Can runny nose, itchy eyes, nasal congestion and frequent sneezing be a symptom of the flu?"
How can I make my inverted nipples point out?,Are there any things I can try at home to make inverted nipples point out?
How can I stop pain from shaving my face?,Can shaving the hair from the face cause pain?
How do I get over my family issues before leaving for college?,Can my family issues cause panic attacks?
How high does a cooking temperature have to be to kill creutzfeldt-jakob disease?,How can Creutzfeldt-Jakob be killed?
How likely is a dermoid cyst going to be cancerous? Just had one removed,Are all dermoid cysts cancerous?
How long does acute bronchitis last in kids?,How long would it take for children to start feeling better after they have had acute bronchitis?
"How much sleep should a 13 yr old girl get a night?She's very active & is trying to get a flatter stomach.She weighs 84lbs&is 4' 11""","My sister is trying to lose weight and wants to sleep for a healthy number of hours. She is 14 and exercises, eats healthy. Would around 7-8 hours of sleep suffice?"
How to take care of relapse of pulmonary edema?,"Can pulmonary edema recur? Is there anything I can do to prevent that from happening? Even if it does occur, how can I treat it?"
I am having a dull pain at my esophagus. Been burping a lot too. Feel slightly better if I take omeprazole. What should I do?,I have been prescribed Omeprazole for pain in the esophagus and burping and it helps me. I want to know if chronic acid reflux can turn into cancer.
"I am struggling to gain one pound, do I have some kind of genetic disorder?",I go for a run everyday and wondering if that could be interfering with weight gain in any way.
"I can only go between 1-4 hours without using the bathroom. Is there any way I can get it to hold more, what to do?",How do I control frequent urination?
"If I have an astigmatism , could that be causing daily headaches? I do not wear glasses but i work on a p.C. All day and a lot of bright lighting.","I have a desk job and end up working on a PC the whole day. I have headaches everyday, can this be a symptom of astigmatism?"
If i suffer the side effects of the morning after pill should I assume they worked ?,"I used the morning after pill and had some bad side effects such as nausea, bloating. Does that mean that the pill has been effective?"
"If u have had giardia and had it treated, but your liver enzymes rose what could that be a indication of?",Are increased liver enzymes a residual effect of giardiasis even if it was treated with medication?
I had mucus in my stools and on own for 3 weeks and then i suddenly got sickness and diarrhea with fever and now back to mucus when wipe does it link?,"Can mucus in stools, sickness, fever and diarrhea be significant of any medical condition?"
"I have a positive ANA 1:160 Homo pattern & RNP of. 3. Joint pain, limb numbness, skin indents stay for hours, bruising. No diagnosis. More testing?","My friend has some symptoms like limb numbness, joint pain, bruising and skin indents. The doctor asked him to get an ANA and RNP and the values are 1:160 and 3. The doctor is not able to come to a conclusion on what it is and I would like your opinion on additional tests that can be taken."
I have a twitching feeling and occasional pain that comes and goes in the upper right abdomen right below my right breast what could this be? Few weeks,"For the past few days, my upper right side of the abdomen has been feeling weird. There is mild pain under the right breast. There also seems to be some twitching. Can it be gastritis?"
I have been having problems every time i eat i go poop and it is yellow and runny and my tummy feels weird in the middle it has I have diabetes,"I have started eating more protein. I notice that my stools are runny with abdominal pain. Can eating more protein cause such symptoms? I also take medicines for diabetes, can that be the reason?"
"I have being getting headaches for about 2 weeks, feeling really tired and fainted once which never happened before and loss of  appetite. what's wrong?","I am pregnant and have had headaches constantly. I went to the doctor and she said my BP is high. Today, I experienced a lot of tiredness and fainted as well. Is this something very concerning?"
"I have endless heartburns through the day and it's making me feel weak daily, While at the same time ruining my appetite. Any ideas? Thank you",I have had heartburn along with loss of appetite for which my doctor asked to get an endoscopy done. Can you tell me more about this procedure?
"I have flu. I have no history of heart deceases. My heart rate is a bit higher as normal. Is it normal during flu, or is this a concern?",Can the flu cause death in a person who has a history of heart disease?
I hit my forehead against the edge of the microwave. Should i get it checked out?,"I injured my head during a fight, the doctor stitched it up and gave me antibiotics. But I now have a headache. Can it be a concussion?"
I hurt my foot somehow but I don't know what is wrong with it. What do I do?,A heavy brick fell on my foot yesterday and it hurts. Should I go see the doctor?
I'm bleeding from penis for no reason. What could this be?,I have some mild bleeding from the penis. Can this be a sign of a UTI?
"I'm having genital herpes outbreak, usually I take acyclovir. But pharm told me it might affect my ulcer. Any home remedies I can do to dry this up?!",Does Acyclovir cause ulcers when it is prescribed for genital herpes?
"I'm having reoccuring eye pain and redness, what could be causes?","Can dry eyes cause pain and redness in the eye? If not, what are some other causes?"
I'm having sulfur burps all day 3-4 times a week no gall bladder. I eat healthy. What could be causing it ?,I have had gall bladder removal surgery a year back and have noticed sulfur burps for the past 3 weeks. Could the surgery be causing it?
I'm so sick of getting so many pimples! what can I do?,Can cutting out on fatty foods help with pimples? I have quite a lot and would love to try some home measures.
I m using dr dnp what are the side effects it?,Can you tell me what the side effects of using dr dnp are?
I recently had sex with my husband on my period and he ejaculated inside me and now I have been having painful cramping in my lower back and stomach.?,"After I had sex during my period, I experienced cramping in the stomach and the lower back. Will Paracetamol help with the pain?"
Is it necessary to get the h1n1 or h5n1 flu shot?,How effective is the HINI and the H5N1 flu shot? Would you recommend I get it?
I started my period on sunday a little but on monday stoped I have a dot. Today is my 7day im feeling like I am still having my period but only dots.,I am experiencing some spotting when my period was supposed to have started. Is this normal and can it mean I am pregnant?
Is there any side effects or bad effect to the body drinking whey protein?,Do I need to take whey protein if I get enough protein from my regular diet?
"I think I have what they call bipolar, and i can't afford therapy. What can I do?",How can one manage bipolar disorder at home without therapy?
I've had a recurring yeast infection for years. How can I prevent them from coming back?,I have been diagnosed with recurrent yeast infections and have had this issue for a few years. Are there some home measures I can try to prevent them from recurring?
I've had eczema on my face since october for the 1st time. Could it be from the makeup brush cleaner made of alcohol that I'm using or my foundation?,I started using a new foundation after which I noticed eczema on the face. I have no similar lesions elsewhere. Can the foundation trigger some kind of negative reaction on my face?
I was told i have serve hypothyroidism now my hands keep feeling like they are asleep my feet hurt really bad and have dry skin on feet is it thyroid?,"My sister was diagnosed with severe hypothyroidism and has symptoms like weakness in the arms, pain in the feet, dry skin on the feet, etc. What dosage of medication should she take for these symptoms to get resolved?"
I woke up with eyes crusted shut. What should I do it really hurts?,Can conjunctivitis cause crusting of the eye and pain? How can I treat it?
Just found out mother-in-law may have tuberculosis after an x-ray. She held our 9-week old baby last week. Should we be worried?,Is a 9 week old baby more prone to catching infections like Tuberculosis if they are touched and held by an infected person?
"My 16 months son has ethyl malonic aciduria, which kind of fats that harm his health (saturated or monoun saturated fat) ?",Is it true that certain kinds of fats would be harmful when one has ethyl malonic aciduria?
My almost 3 month old has been crying during his feedings. Almost every feeding time he cries.,My 3 month old baby fell from the bed and continuously cried. He has now stopped crying but is refusing feeds. Should I take him to the doctor?
"My fasting sugar was 136 or 7.5.  This is high.  So,  is this the reason I get vomitish every morning? Thanks",Can a high blood sugar level cause vomiting?
My left testicle is lower and horizontal position while my right testicle is higher and vertical position. Normal?,Is it normal for one testicle to be lower than the other one?
My legs become numb to the point where I can not walk. It happens sometimes when I move quickly or carrie something very heavy. What can this be?,I am not able to walk because my legs become numb. What is the treatment for this?
"Need expert help. I am thinking of using peppermint oil capsules to calm my ibs, is this a bad idea?",Are there any published studies on the effect of peppermint oil on IBS?
"One week ago tonight I threw up several times, no diarrhea or stomach cramps. Slept for the rest of the next day. Still no energy!!! Appetite is back.",I have been feeling extremely weak and as if I have no energy at all. I am eating normally now but had several episodes of vomiting last week. Could the vomiting be causing my weakness now
Past couple days my eyelids are twitching. What may be the cause? Just slight spasm.,How can I treat eyelid twitching and spasm at home?
"People who have had liver transplant due to cirrhosis (latest stage), do they always develop an hepatic aneurysm?",Can a person with heart disease develop hepatic aneurysm? Can they also undergo a liver transplant because of end stage liver cirrhosis?
"Please help, 27 w/ ED for the past year 1/2 started with problems once in a while to now can't stay erect while masturbating. Will cialis stop working?",I am 27 and have been on Cialis for ED for about 2 months now. But I notice that the symptoms are worsening and I cannot achieve and maintain an erection. Is it normal for this to happen while on medication?
Please suggest best antibiotics for higher wcb and crp. It is due to gall bladder surgery and removed from my daughter?,My son was diagnosed with an infection after gall bladder removal surgery. He was prescribed antibiotics but his WBC and CRP are still high. Is this normal?
Please tell me what can they do about acne holes on face?,Are there any topical ointments that can be used to treat holes on the face caused by acne?
"Purple fluid filled sack on scalp grew over several months, popped when squeezed. Resembled skin tag. Concerned of cancer. Nothing for doc to check?",Can a cancerous lesion on the scalp present with symptoms such as a fluid filled sac occurring over many months with some discharge?
Recently prescribed Lumigan 0.1% IOP concern about burning in eyes called the Doc and Doc does not take calls. What to do? Next appt in a week?,Is burning sensation in the eye expected after using Lumigan 0.1 IOP? Should I go see the doctor immediately or wait until my appointment next week?
"Regarding my last question. Everytime i take oxycodone, i become very sensitive to sound. A person talking is too loud. Even no migraine. Known se?","Does oxycodone cause increased sensitivity to sound? I have been experiencing this for a while, it feels like someone is talking loud. "
Severe gastroparesis throw up everyday. Mostly liquid diet. How do I ensure I'm getting the right nutrients to be as healthy as possible?,What are the causes of gastroparesis? Would I be able to take a solid diet or should I switch to a liquid diet?
Strange or scary Ambien (zolpidem) side effects?,My doctor prescribed Ambien for sleep issues but did not explain any of possible side effects. What are some?
"Ultrasound says liver measures 15.7 CM in length, is that normal size?",What is the normal size of liver that is measured on an ultrasound?
Walked somewhere yesterday in skinny jeans. Left testicle started hurting. Hurts when I touch it. Never happened before. I am very healthy.,I have had swelling and pain in the left testicle for the past one week. Can an ultrasound help diagnose what is the problem?
"Was treated for chlamydia with doxycycline at 2 months after possible exposure, could I have asymptomatic PID and not know it from the infection?",Can an STD like chlamydia cause PID even if treated with doxycycline? Does PID always present with symptoms?
Was writing and my fingers got all weird like Charlie horse and tendons tight. What should I do?,I have tightness in the tendons of my hand and it feels like Charley horse. This happens to me whenever I am stressed. Can anxiety cause something like this?
Watery eyes been using restasis for a month I've tried refresh which caused discomfort what eye drops do you recommend to stop the eyes from watering ?,Can long term use of eyedrops like Refresh or Restasis worsen watery eyes? I have been using it for a month and I feel like it has worsened.
What are side effects of cyclizine 50mg?,Are Meclizine and Cyclizine the same medication? What is it used for?
What are some good lumbar strain exercises?,Can you suggest some exercises for my lower back? I had a lot of back ache and my doctor diagnose me with a lumbar strain.
What are the elements of a good exercise routine in pregnancy?,Can you recommend some safe exercises to do during pregnancy?
What are the side effects of zoloft (sertraline)?,Can Zoloft and birth control interact?
What are the signs of having frostbite?,Can you tell me how frostbite is caused and what are the symptoms that one has it?
What can I do about adrenal gland tumour and what are the symptoms?,Is excessive sweating and weakness a symptom of adrenal gland tumor?
What can I do to naturally abort a baby? I live in the philippines and abortion is illegal here. Any vitamins that can probably drop the baby? Help me,I have heard that eating papaya and taking Vitamin C tablets will help abort a baby. Is that true?
What can I give my 13 teen year old sore throat headache?,Does penicillin used in a 11 year for sore throat and headache cause harmful effects?
What does EKG saying t wave flat mean?,I am preparing for a project and I am learning a little about EKG. Does a flat T wave mean that the person has had a heart attack?
What does it mean if I have only a partial tear of my pcl?,Can a partial tear of PCL be diagnosed on an X-ray?
What does it mean if some people who have gilbert's syndrome develop anemia?,Can anemia caused by Gilbert's syndrome be cured?
What does lymph node with echo -gene center means? What can cause Swelling of these type of lymph nodes.,Do swollen lymph nodes always indicate cancer? Do cancerous lymph nodes have echo gene center?
What do we do if my bf has been w someone w hpv? We haven't had sex yet. I've had the 3 gardasil shot,Does HPV turn into cancer even if one has taken the Gardasil shot?
What do you suggest if I'm 27 I have the problem of sperm ejaculation as soon as I insert my penis. How to control it?,Have you heard of a young male having premature ejaculation without any trigger factors? What would you suggest?
"What do you suggest if my husband has been prescribed metoprolol to reduce his heart rate, which was running over 100 bpm.?",I am taking Metoprolol for a high heart rate. Can I also take Zolpidem along with it?
What inanimate objects make you calm when you see them?,"I feel very overwhelmed at times and watching a fountain helps, do you know of any other inanimate things that can help bring on a calming effect?"
What is a?Multi cystic pancreas?,Can multicystic pancreas cause cancer in the long term?
What is an anti-nuclear antibody test for in immunology?,I was asked to get an ANA test because the doctor suspects I have lupus. What is that test?
What is micturition?,Does burning micturition always point out to a UTI?
What is ovulation and when will female ovulates?,I am trying to conceive and have been using ovulation prediction kit to find out when I will ovulate. How accurate are they?
What is the bone spur surgery recovery time.?,How long would a surgery to remove bone spur take?
What is the difference between a gastric sleeve and the Roux-en-Y surgery?,Do bariatric surgeries like gastric sleeve or Roux-en-Y surgery actually work in the long term?
What is the recovery for endoscopic sinus surgery and septoplasty like?,Can I smoke during the recovery period after an endoscopic surgery and septoplasty?
What tips do you have for designing an effective workout / nutrition plan?,Can you share some suggestions on how to workout and take proper nutrition to lose weight?
What to do if I am worried about my 2 year old son having a holter monitor test. I don't know what to expect.?,My daughter had a Holter Monitor test. There is a rash around the area where the lead was attached. Can he take anti allergy medication?
What to do if I cannot stop eating fatty foods. How can I stop?,"I have fatty liver, can eating fatty foods cause this?"
What to do if I have problems regarding my fistulectomy?,My sister got a fistulectomy done and seems to have some issues like bleeding. Should see see the doctor in person?
What type of daily vitamin or mineral should a normally healthy 23 year old male be taking?,Can vitamin and mineral supplements cause nausea or acid reflux when consumed regularly?
"What would cause T3 (liothyronine) levels to be abnormal,  but tsh/t4 are normal? I'm not pregnant.",I have abnormal levels of T3 and normal levels of TSH/T4. What are my treatment options if I am currently pregnant?
When does a doctor use a large needle to stitch with?,Do large wounds require a large needle to stitch?
When i close my eyes and so tired (trying to sleep) suddenly random thoughts come to my mind like a very fast dream.should i worry?,My mind races a lot when I try to sleep. Is that concerning?
When I have my shoes on or off i feel like sand is under the bottom of my feet along with s tingling sensation?,Can I take Vitamin B12 supplements for tingling under the foot?
"When I was thinking about something that made me feel depressed and stressed out, I felt my heart flutter, what does this mean?","I experience heart flutters at times, can depression or anxiety cause this?"
Which is better for children to boost their immunity after illness 7seas tablets or minadex multivitamin syrup?,How does Minadex multivitamin syrup and 7seas help improve immunity in children? Can I give my daughter both or one of them?
Why do I cough when I eat salt or salty foods?,I have been experiencing a cough and fever for the past 1 week. Would eating salty foods help?
Why do women with preeclampsia have nausea and abdominal pain?,Can I get preeclampsia during my second pregnancy if I had it during my first? I have some abdominal pain and nausea and am worried.
Why is it that some nutrients bypass the liver entirely?,Are all medications absorbed by the liver?
Why is it whenever I eat meat I get an upset stomach and a lot of bad gas? Is this an intolerance? Are our bodies really not meant to digest meat?,I plan to start working out regularly and read that meat has a lot of protein. Is vegetarian protein better or is meat protein better in terms of quality?
Why people with runny nose tend to have cracked lips?,Can cracked lips occur in case one has a runny nose?
Will having lipomas in lower back affect an epidural or spinal block given before having a csection?,"I have a lipoma and am due to get an epidural or spinal block before my C section. If the needle pierces the lipoma, can it cause bleeding and an infection?"
Would you say it is scientifically possible to get the flu from the flu shot?,Are there instances of a person getting infected with the flu after taking the vaccine for the flu?
"21 f on birth control, period started late, period lighter than normal, pain in my belly that's not normal, been tired a lot more lately. what wrong?","Are delayed period, light periods, abdominal pain, tiredness common side effects of birth control?"
"26yo F. HIDA scan showed 23% function of gallbladder, no stones. Have had pain for 3 years- should it be removed?",Should I get my gall bladder removed when I have pain for 3 years and HIDA scan showed 23 percent gall bladder function with no stones?
After having sex once I don't feel like doing it with her again why is that so ?,What are the causes of decreased libido?
Anal fissure has been bleeding a lot for a week now. Started steroid cream treatment one day ago. How long will it continue to bleed a lot?,How long does bleeding from anal fissure persist after applying steroid cream?
Any effective home treatment for allergies that I can do?,Any home remedies that can help to manage allergies?
Are there good OTC remedies for labyrinthitis?,What is labyrinthitis?
Both of we are carrier and our first baby has hb e beta thall. We are interested about our 2nd baby.Is there any genetic treatment? Please advice...,What is the chances of our second child getting B thalassemia when we both are carriers?
Can AST and ALT levels rise due to a root canal procedure?,Does a root canal procedure cause the AST and ALT levels to rise up?
Can I take B12 shots if I have high blood pressure? Thanks in advance.,Can people with high BP take Vit B 12 shots?
Can I take my antibiotic an hour early its penicillin 500mg 1 tablet every 12 hours?,Can Penicillin 500 mg be taken an hour early?
"Can people be born without color blindness then get when they get older. I know that people with good vision can go bad, is it the same thing?",Can color blindness develop later in life? Is it the same as developing refractive errors?
Can u test positive for hsv1 and 2? What does the blood test prove if u never had a symptom?,Can you test positive for HSV1 and HSV2 at the same time and what is looked for in the blood when one undergoes a blood test?
Could a varicocelectomy or an inguinal hernia cause epididymitis?,Can epididymitis be caused because of a varicocelectomy and inguinal hernia?
Could brushing your teeth too hard cause fatal oral diseases?,Can you get oral diseases because of brushing too hard?
"Could you write me a doctor's certificate so I can resit my music exam? Jammed my finger, blood blister formed and got so swollen that nail lifted off","Is there a fee for writing doctor's note?  My finger got jammed, there is a blood blister and swelling. "
"Dads HbA1C was 6.2 at 21/1/201 he made diabetic diet: HbA1C was 6.0 at 4/4/201 can he now check HbA1C again?",How often should one check their HbA1C?
Does boiling a hot dog reduce its sodium?,Does the sodium content in a hot dog come down when one boils it?
Does calcification in thyroid nodules mean that you have cancer?,Does it mean that one has cancer if they have calcification in thyroid nodules?
Does taking 5 htp help reduce the adrenaline hormone in the adrenal glands?,Can the  adrenalin levels come down when one takes 5htp?
Do gmos have any effects on type one diabetes?,Do GMOs help to in the management of Type 1 Diabetes?
Do people with testicular cancer feel the pain come and go?,Does testicular cancer present with pain?
Foods to treat low alkaline phosphatase?,What foods help to manage alkaline phosphatase?
Had a cyst on my bottom. MRSA. Doc gave me doxycycline for 10 days. Cyst drained & doesn't hurt. Finished meds. Is it out of my system? Do I go back?,Does being on Doxycycline for 10 days help clear MRSA cystic infections?
"Have spells where I feel like my foot is going an inch lower than the floor, slightly dizzy but not horrible. Also have tinnitus for a yr. What is it?",How can dizziness be treated?
"Hi, 3.71 x 4.35cm mixed echogenic mass in fundal part of uterus implies what pls?",What causes a  3.71 x 4.35cm mixed echogenic mass in the fundus of the uterus?
"Hi there are you able to help.me please Dr. Eric Kelts? I think I have a trapped nerve and its traveling from the bottom of my back down my legs, which I think may be siataca I'm not quite sure but I'm in agony. Cant move at all with my back! I struggled",Can Sciatica present with severe pain that travels from the lower back to down the legs along with restriction of movements?
How are batteries chosen to be put in pacemakers?,How are the batteries selected that are put into pacemakers?
"How can I lose weight? I'm a 17 years old girl, weight: 170 lbs and height: about 6 feet",What helps with weight loss? I am a female weighing 170 lbs with a height of 6 feet
How do I 'force' grow a beard in a certain area? I want to make a 'goatee' style but all I have is chin hairs and small beard. Is minoxidil good?,Does Minoxidil help with beard growth?
How do I talk to my doctor about incontinence?,What are the common causes of incontinence?
How do you contact worms from pets? I saw a few white things in my b.M. But not every time. How can I get rid of them? What are the symptoms?,Can one get worn infestation from pets? What are the symptoms and treatments of worm infestation in humans?
How do you safely remove a swimmer with a possible head injury from the water?,How do you safely remove a swimmer out of water who has a head injury?
How harmful is a yeast infection if not treated?,What are the complications of a yeast infection if it is not cured?
How long after a aneurysm surgery do you have to stay off work?,What is the recovery time after undergoing surgery for an aneurysm?
How long does the implantation bleeding last? Is is as heavy as normal periods?,How does implantation bleeding present?
How often should I get my custom  orthotics  evaluated and replaced & have Flat feet/ 1fallen arch. Advice  for 5K run/walker to avoid injury?,How frequent should I get my orthotics  for flat feet checked and replaced? What is the advice you can give me to avoid injury during a 5k run?
"How should I increase my weight? I am 20 years old having 62 kg weight and my height is 5""6'",What causes the weight to increase in a 20 year old weighing 62 Kgs and height being 5'6''?
How to improve sexual energy.?,What helps in improving sexual energy?
"How to loose belly fat? please provide specifics, i..e type of exercise, duration of exercise, etc.",Which exercising regimen help to loose belly fat?
How to make my body fit? I am always facing problem with my weight-gain. what should I do?,I have been gaining weight and what can help to make my body fit?
I am a pediatric Hodgkin's lymphoma survivor. I have developed horizontal double vision. I have an ophthalmology appt. How worried should I be?,Does Hodgkin's Lymphoma cause double vision?
I am thinking of getting a tattoo currently I am on the following medication. Effient 1 a day tensig 50mg 1/2 day ramipril 2.5 1 a day aspirin 1/day is it advisable to get a tattoo as I have 2 stents and have had a heart attack in the last 18 months?,"Is it okay to get a tattoo when I am on Effient, Temsig, Ramipril, aspirin with a history of having 2 stents and a heart attack in the last 18 months?"
I do unprotected sex with a prostitute after 28 days I go for hiv duo test the result is non reactive 0.07 is it conclusive?,How is HIV spread and when is the right time to take a HIV duo test?
If a mother has celiac should the daughter be tested?,Should a daughter be tested for Celiac if the mother has been found to have it?
I feel like my food doesn't digest & I feel like I have to constantly throw up?,Can you please tell me what foods help with nausea and vomiting?
I had intercourse today and I've been bleeding kind of heavily since then and I'm not on my period. But my period isn't regular either. It didn't pain?,Can sexually transmitted infection cause post coital bleeding?
I have a pea sized bump on top of my wrist. It's kinda hard but also soft when i touch it. It moves with my tendon. Mildly irritating.,What is the cause of a hard pea sized lump on the wrist which moves with the tendon?
I Have a tiny lump on the upper left side of my back. I have had it for about 2 months now. It is like a little grey spot. So please help.?,What can cause a tiny lump to come up on the upper left side of the back? It is like a grey spot and has been there since about 2 months now.
"I HAVE DIMPLING ON MY NIPPLE, CURRENTLY HAVE AN IRREVERSIBLE TUBAL HAD MY LAST CHILD ALMOST 6 YRS AGO, WITH A COUPLE OF PAINLESS LUMPS ALONG BREAST UP?",What causes dimpling on the nipple along with a few painless lumps in the breast tissue? My last child was 6 years ago and I had a tubal ligation done.
I have headache please suggest?,What are the different kinds of headache?
"I have mild pressure/tightness on forehead & face all the time, for 8 years. I feel better only when I bow my head looking on floor. What could it be?",Can sinus infections cause pressure and tightness in the face?
I have very high prolactin because of a pituitary tumor and I'm on antidepressants too. Is there some correlation?,Does being on antidepressants cause an increase in the prolactin levels in the body?
I hit my head on the car door and have a small bump. 24 hours later I have a bad headache. Could I have a concussion?,Can I have a concussion if I hit my head on the car door and have a bump and now 24 hours later developed a headache?
I hurt my knee and heard a pop and now it hurts to go up and down stairs and hurts when walking on it or to move it certain ways should I see my doctor?,Should I see my doctor if I heard a pop in my knee after an injury and now it hurts to go up and down the stairs and hurts to walk on it?
"I just started my period 2day & just started getting a real bad headache, sore throat, body aches & chills. Could it be from my period r a cold?","Are the headache, sore throat, body aches, chills due to a cold infection or because of the period I am on right now?"
"I'm 1 doctor checked cervix, developed abnormal cells, maybe HPV warts, getting more tests, been with boyfriend 2 years can I still have unprotected sex?",Can I engage in unprotected sex with by boyfriend with whom I have been with since 2 years if I have abnormal cells on my cervix?
I'm 24. My cholesterol is 354 and am class 3 obesity and am now working with a dietician and my doctor. I also have osteoarthritis. What more can I do?,What foods increase the cholesterol levels in the body?
"I'm 2 female. I use hair removing lotion for pubic hair. What can I use to prevent or treat the itching pimples of when hair grows back?",What helps with itchy bumps that come up when hair starts to grow back after removing them with a hair removing lotion?
I'm 48 years old and I don't have frequent erections but I do take blood pressure meds plus cialis is there any help for me or is it all in my head?,I am 48 years old and I want to know what can help me because I have erectile dysfunction? I am on blood pressure medication and Cialis already.
I'm 5-9 160 pounds how do I gain weight fast and healthy in 1 month I want to gain 20pounds or more?,What is the fastest and healthy way to gain weight?
I'm a young MTF and I want to start hormone replacement therapy. Is aldactone (spironolactone) 100-mg/day a good choice?,I am a MTF and looking to start HRT. Can I start off with aldactone 100 mg/day?
I'm having bad headaches with cold sweats neck pain and nausea and pain behind the eyes,"Can stress cause recurrent headaches, neck pains, cold sweats?"
I'm having way too many heart palpitations (heart thumps really hard every 2 minutes) I'm only 22 years old. Never had a history of heart problems.,Can anxiety and excessive caffeine cause palpitations?
"Im not sure if im pregnant. Took 2 test one + with very faint blue line other - .. Fatigue, severe headaches. Nausea.. Dizziness. But painful help?","Can I be pregnant if one test showed a faint line, another test was negative along with symptoms like severe headaches, nausea, dizziness?"
I normally wash my hair 1 * week because it's very dry I take isotretinoin. Will have washing it in 9 days instead of 7 make it fallout more?!,Does washing the hair once in 9 days instead of 7 days cause it to fall out when one is on Isotretinoin?
Is a four week negative HIV antibody test / negative PCR test reliable?,"Are negative HIV antibody test, negative PCR test at 4 weeks accurate?"
Is atherosclerosis hereditary?,How to manage atherosclerosis?
Is blood pressure of 124/66 OK? My blood pressure is normally 110 /74. I'm feeling edgy and wired right now at 2 am.,Does anxiety cause an increase in the BP?
"I shared food with people I don't know too well, eating from same plate. Have a canker sore. Chances of contracting oral/genital herpes?",What factors increase the causation of oral/genital herpes?
Is it better to take aspirin at night or morning to prevent heart attack?,What are the common side effects of aspirin when it is taken to prevent heart attacks?
Is it normal for the stomach to increase in size after receiving cpr?,Does a CPR cause the stomach to increase in size?
Is it normal to get a cystocele on first pregnancy at 27w? Not overweight.  Stand and sit for long periods of time. Is there harm to baby?,Is having a cystocele during the first pregnancy normal and does it cause any harm to the baby?
Is it safe to soak my earrings in rubbing alcohol (ethyl 70%) everyday before putting them in & putting them in right after?,Does rubbing alcohol cause skin irritation?
Is mental illness like bipolar hereditary?,Does bipolar disorder have any hereditary influence?
Is rapid /hard heartbeat normal followed by adrenaline rush even if in bed seems random its happening more often now its been happening for years,At what level of heart rate it is considered to be high?
Is there a cure for yeast infections because my blood is so thin I have risk for internal bleeding?,Does yeast infections cause the blood to become thin and lead to internal bleeding?
Is there an effective way to determine if you caught a venereal disease?,What is a venereal disease and how does it spread?
"Is this still in healing process or it could be a scar. What should I do? Do I need an check up appointment or I have to wait mo I had treated age spots 2 1/2 weeks ago with liquid nitrogen. The scabbing fell off in 5 days. Now, the treated spots turned",Is the wound healing well and can it turn into a scar? Do I need an in person check up for this?
I think I have a bunion that is very painful and it's too late for me to go to a store. Are there any common household items I can use to help for now?,I think I have a bunion and the pain is extreme. What is the next plan of action?
Its 3am and a lot is on my mind. Im discouraged because IV been in college for a yr and have completed only half of what most students have done. My dr?,I feel discouraged and has not been able to sleep well because I am not able to cope with college like others. Can you please help me?
It's hard to work out in the winter. I like running outside but too cold and too much snow. Any tips and how to lose weight in the winter time?,How can I lose weight in winter since I cannot go out for runs during the times when it snows?
I've been getting swollen red hands mostly in the morning. I noticed I sleep hard on my hands is this something to be worried about?,Can sleeping hard on the hands cause swelling and redness?
I was taking 20mg Prozac (fluoxetine) and increased to 30mg daily this month . Should i take all in the morning or or divide at breakfast and lunch. Eventually i plan to move to 40mg daily . When should I increase?,Should Prozac be taken in divided doses throughout the day or all at once?  What is the maximum daily recommended dosage of Prozac?
"I wear glasses, sometimes I don't wear them, either way my vision at night time is worse off then day time, does that mean anything?",I am an adult male and my vision at night is worse compared to the day time even when I am wearing my spectacles. What does this mean?
Low potassium ? What number do you have to be? An can I take over-the-counter medicine?,What is the normal level of potassium in the body and are there any OTC medications to help correct low potassium levels?
May I use a tampon one week after a medical abortion? I am finding conflicting information online....,Can I use a tampon for the bleeding one week after undergoing a medical abortion?
Me and my wife are trying for baby from past few months but getting negative?,Me and my wife are trying to have a baby. Can you help me with some tips?
Might it happen that a severe infection plus poor nutrition cause hair loss?,Can hairloss be caused by a severe infection and poor nutrition?
"My 5 yr. Old daughter had a urine test last week and they found a trace of blood, calcium is 2.4 and creatinine is 3. should I be concerned?",Should I worry if my 5 year old daughter had some traces of blood in her urine with a calcium level of 2.4 and creatine level of 3.3?
My 7 mth old son fell off the back if a couch and hit his head on the concrete floor. How should I treat the swelling? When will it go down?,What helps to reduce the swelling that has come up on the head of my 7 month old son after he fell off the back of a couch?
My back hurts on my right side?,What causes back pain on the right side?
"My bm aren't solid but not quite loose. Looks more like for lack of better word ""shredded"" the why is this?",What causes stringy and shredded stools?
My eyebrows and hair fallout a lot and my eyebrows don't grow back atall or grow really fast. I even used rogaine (minoxidil) to grow my eyebrows didn't work.,What can help with eyebrow hair fall when Rogaine does not help?
My eyesight is bad in one eye its -0.5 and in other -0.75 how to improve my eye to the normal eyesight without specs ?,Do I need specs when eyesight is -0.5 in one eyes and -0.75 in the other?
My heart rate is normal during the day but gets faster when ever i sleep why?,What is the cause of heart rate to get elevated during sleeping?
My moms uncle and his daughter both had leukemia at 65 and 54 years old. He had aml and she had apl. What would cause this? Genetic?,Does genetic play a role in the causation of Leukemia particularly AML and APL?
"Occasionally a blood vessel in my lower leg ruptures & it stings, a lump forms that is very painful to the touch & appearance of a bruise.?","What is the cause of occasional rupture of a blood vessel in the lower leg leading to bruising, formation of a lump that is painful to the touch?"
"On the top right side of my head, I have this random pulsing feeling? Like someone is tapping their finger on this one small spot. It's not painful.",Can stress cause pulsatile headaches?
Painful rash on right buttock spreading. Causing lymph soreness on groin and overall soreness on right side and leg.,What helps with rashes on the groin that causes lymph node soreness?
Penis extender or jelqing? Which is better for enlargement?,Do penis extender and jelqing really help in enlarging the penis?
Planning a healthful pregnancy with diabetes! What do I need to do and when?,What do I need to know before planning a pregnancy with a history of diabetes?
Please tell me what is it called when your back locks up?,What is locking of back called as?
Severe migraine for a week and pain deep in ears too. What causes the deep ear pain within migraines?,What causes ear pains along with migraine headaches?
Should I ask to be put on a Statin at my checkup tomorrow? My cholesterol was very high and I'm sure it still is.,Does statin help with high cholesterol?
Should i get a flu vaccine or are there negative side effects?,What are the advantages and disadvantages of getting a flu vaccine?
Should I remove a bullet if it's still inside?,How long does a wound caused by a bullet take to heal?
Tinnitus 35 yrs. Quiet till breakdown May.Squealing. Up and down.ENT dr thinks stress is cause.Good sign noises vary so.Treat Stress and it will recede?,"Can stress cause Tinnitus in a 35 year old? Also, can controlling stress cause the Tinnitus to subside?"
"Was recently diagnosed with crohn's, thinking about switching to a vegetarian lifestyle. Is it possible since raw veg/salad are a already a problem?",Does switching to a vegetarian diet cause any problems in people having Chrons?
Does mecca root pills make your buttocks grow bigger and if yes why did i loose inches of my hips n butt when i started taking the pills?,Does Mecca Root pills cause weight gain or weight loss especially in the hip and buttock area?
What are considered the safest prescription pills for high blood pressure/hypertension?,What are the common side effects of blood pressure medications?
What are some of the risk factors for getting High blood pressure?,May I know what are the risks of having high blood pressure?
What bodily factors affect heart rate?,What factors influence heart rate?
What can you do if you can't get the contact lens in at all?,What is the correct way to use contact lens?
"What causes a high red blood cell count it's at 19 and ESR is high, TSH 1.25 never been so low anti thyroid at 9 was 900 prev?",How to manage high RBC and ESR counts with normal TSH levels and antithyroid antibody level at 9 which was 900 previously?
"What causes underdeveloped breasts in a woman with pcos? Current biochem abnorm are high LH vit d defic, sometimes low estro and prog. Testos normal!","I have high LH levels, Vitamin D deficiency, normal testosterone and low estrogen and progesterone and I want to know what is the cause of underdeveloped breasts in a women with PCOS?"
What could increased levels of oestrogen do to me?,What is the effect of increases estrogen in the body?
What do I need to do after trying to conceive for like 8 month now and there is no good result for second child?,Me and my wife are trying to have a second baby since the past 8 months now. Can you help me?
"What do you suggest if my son has cerebral palsy, school does not have room for him or lvn for his meds?",What is the advice you can give me for my son who has cerebral palsy since his school is not taking him in?
What do you suggest if my son was just diagnosed with a heart murmur. he just turned 3 and I thought murmurs were diagnosed at birth?,What conditions present with a heart murmur?
What foods should be avoided if you have genital herpes?,Can genital herpes spread through food?
"What happens if HPV goes away on its own, can it still be spread?",Can one spread HPV even when the immune system clears it off completely?
What is alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency and what are its effects on the body?,What are the symptoms of alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency?
What is overdose magnesium to take by mouth? I took 200 mg Is this too much?,What are the possible side effects of Magnesium side effects?
What is the medicine of high blood pressure?,What are the common side effects of medications that help with high blood pressure?
What kind of bacteria or viruses does a semen culture detect or look for?,What is a semen culture?
What's a heart murmur?,Can you please tell me what exactly a heart murmur is?
What should I do for prematurely grey hair?,Can you please share some remedies for premature greying of hair?
"What to do if I am having prk done , so while I'm on my recovery stage, should I have my place temperature at a certain degree?",Is increase in body temperature a common side effect during recovery after undergoing PRK?
What would happen if someone mixed femara (letrozole) with human growth hormones?,What are the drug interactions between Letrozole and HGH?
When i get heart burn my eyes start burning as well and its very uncomfortable. Why and how can I treat it?,What are the causes of burning sensation in the eyes and heartburn?
Which listerine is best for cavities?,I have cavities and which listerine is best for it?
Why does my left hip almost every night? I get up scraming with it. It goes from my hip bone around front of my leg and ends at my knee .,Does a nerve compression in the hip area cause the pain to radiate down to the knee and leg?
Why does my tongue hurt so bad?,What are the causes of tongue pain?
Will I still have baby after heart attack?,Can I have a baby after having an heart attack?
Would a shattered scapula take longer to heal than a compound tib fib fracture?,"What is the treatment of scapula, tiba and fibula fractures?"
After a 3 days of influenza (flu) w/ fever took ibuprofen and acetaminophen it have left me with a back burning sensation. No problem during peeing. ?,How can I treat back burning from a UTI?
"Ana 160:1 with u1rnp 5 u/ml. Other lupus screens negative. Pulmonary hypertension, Renal failure reverses with bicarbonate (sodium bicarbonate). Can it be mtcd/sjogren?",Are complications such as renal failure and Pulmonary Hypertension common when one has Sjogren's?
Anorexic frail with irregular heartbeat?,Can being underweight cause an irregular heartbeat?
Any best multivitamin brand which is good for seborrheic dermatitis and candida overgrowth??,Can you suggest a multivitamin supplement brand that can help control my seborrheic dermatitis and candidiasis?
Any recommendations for an ointment for hand foot and mouth rash on a 2 year old?  She's energetic but a little uncomfortable with rash on arms/bottom,My toddler has a rash on her arms and buttocks. Is there something I can use on the rash to make her feel better?
"Any suggestion i got injection benzylpenicillin  2400000 and now feel worthier than before , i got cold  ?",How does getting an injection of penicillin 2400000 help?
"Are Sympathetic Nerve Blocks effective at calming the sympathetic system which causes angina and migraines? If not, why not? Would seem logical.",Does an active sympathetic system cause angina and migraines? Wouldn't nerve blocks help in such cases?
"At night when I use my phone or pc, it becomes somewhat blurry. Why is this?",What can I use to relieve eye strain from using electronic devices at night?
Blood pressure is 140/88. Little high? I'm 25.,"For a man in his 20s, is BP of 140/88 normal?"
Bright red spotting period due in 6days. Had light spotting 4 past yr mid cycle. Last month period lasted 12 days. 44 yrs old. Worried. Hormones?,I am in my 40s and think I am going through menopause. I have frequent spotting a few days before and even after my period over the last year or so. My period also lasts for longer than usual. What do you think it is?
Can dementia cause ANS dysfunction? If so how?,How can dementia cause ANS dysfunction?
Can I tell me how I can keep my materialism up when my not eating?,Can being stressed cause me to feel low on energy and have a reduced appetite?
Can laser eye surgery cause pain during the process?,Does laser eye surgery cure near-sightedness permanently?
Can micro dermabrasion hurt?,Is microdermabrasion painful?
Can somebody give me advice I have knee pain(locking) for 5 months now?,How is chronic knee pain due to arthritis treated?
Can someone die from an enlarged heart on x ray?,How long does it take for the heart to appear enlarged on an X-ray?
Can you advise me translate my MRI results?,"From my MRI scan, does it look like I have brain cancer?"
Can you call me at 908-405-0112?,"If things get worse, can you share a phone number that I can call on?"
Can you get abdominal adhesions from a laparoscopic bilateral hernia repair?,Is abdominal adhesions a common side-effect of a laparoscopic bilateral hernia repair surgery?
Can you guys tell me how advanced does lung/bronchial cancer have to be?,How is lung cancer tested for?
Diabetic macular edema can be cure with acupuncture?,Can acupuncture therapy help treat eye complications from my diabetes?
Does anyone know what can cause severe leg pain in both legs especially at night?,How to treat severe leg pain at night?
Does a woman's virgina itch if she has sex with a man who has prostate problems?,Can I get vaginal itching if I have sex with a man who is experiencing prostate problems?
Does chiropractic medicine help people with back problems?,Can you suggest some exercises that I can try for back pain?
Does excessive masturbation over a long period of time cause back ache?,How can I stop myself from masturbating so frequently?
Does ovarian cancer cause leg numbness and foot swelling?,Does ovarian cancer run in the family?
Does the dad or the mom carry the height gene for a daughter?,How can I increase my height?
Does using a foam roller build muscle or relax muscle? What impact does it make?,How does a foam roller work? Is it to relax the muscles or does it help tone them?
Does weight loss is natural during breast feedind?,How long should one breastfeed a child?
"Father has psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis, I also have joint pain. Does that mean an autoimmune disease will pass on to my son as well?",Can psoriasis be passed on in the family? Can a person inherit it from their grandparents?
"Feeling a little shaky, nausea. Not diabetic, but have a glucose meter. Meter reads 75mg 3 hours after eating a couple almond cookies. Is this normal?",Could shakiness and nausea be from a low blood sugar like 75 mg/dl? I ate a cookie 3 hours ago.
For what reasons might any surgeon choose a stomach stapling over a lap-band surgery?,How much weight loss can be expected after a stomach stapling procedure?
"Had liver failure, drs cannot pinpoint source; developed ascites.  How can I improve my liver and kidney function naturally? No meds.",Can surgery help cure liver failure and its complications?
Have a bump on right side lip of my vagina stings and itches so bad when I sit down it stings more I didn't have sex in year what can it b?,I noticed a bump in the vaginal area that itches a bit and is quite painful. Could it be from shaving a few days back?
Hello i noticed I have a small black dot  on my gum the mark takes up the surface area of the very tip of my gum tissue.The part looks like a triangle?,Can gum bleeding cause one's teeth to fall out?
How can a DHT blocker affect a female user on birth control?,How does a DHT blocker affect the actions of birth control?
How can I address a gambling addiction?,How does one get addicted to gambling?
"How can I control my PP sugar level...Fasting is controlled. What extra edge I need to do to control it. Am eating meds, walk and eating also controlled?",How is diabetes detected? Should I test my blood sugar before or after eating?
How can I reduce my triglycerides levels. I had a kidney removed in 2010 & my levels have gone up. I am vegetarian and follow a really healthy diet.,Can statins help lower triglyceride levels?
How can I slow hair loss in the middle front of my hair?,Any tips on how to slow down hair loss in the middle of the scalp?
How can you test cholesterol levels?,Can high cholesterol cause one to experience any symptoms?
How is a medical exam used by the insurance company?,My insurance company has ordered a medical exam. Can you tell me what to expect in this exam? Would the doctor be examining me or ordering tests?
How long does it take for sleeping meds to get out of your system? How long does it take anesthesia had to get out of your system.,Can sleep medications be used for anesthesia?
How low can hemoglobin go before you need a transfusion?,"At what Hemoglobin levels, is a blood transfusion recommended?"
How much time or how far do I have to bike ride to lose weight?,Does biking cause weight loss in a particular area?
How prevalent is low testosterone for men ages 30-50?,Is low testosterone common for men between 30-50 years of age?
How to cure Hernia Discale? What kind of exercises shall I do?,Can surgery help cure a herniated disc?
How to live if you hate your life and your too afraid to die?,Can a constant fear of death make it difficult to live a normal life?
How to lose tummy fats?,How can I look slimmer from the tummy area?
I am 5/1 and 185 pounds I have hip problems so I don't exercise what is my waite loss options I am 45years old?,"I am overweight, and unable to exercise due to hip conditions. Do you have any other tips for weight loss?"
I am a male 21 yeas of age there is a small painless lump about 1 cm in my groin area this is at the point where my inner thigh connects with my groin?,How is a small lump in the groin from hernia treated?
"I am convinced that at this moment Maxalt (rizatriptan) not working. My head feel so much worse. It hurts to move it, just to walk. Does Maxalt (rizatriptan) not work when PMS?",How is headache during PMS treated?
"I believe I have the Flu and I have been vomiting, green and yellow. I also have a fever. I am 27.?",Is yellow colored vomitus normal if one hasn't eaten well?
"If I only have 10 minutes to work out, what can I do?",Can you tell me a few quick exercises that I can do in 10 minutes?
"If someone was treated in the past for chlamydia, is there a way for doctor's to find out with out having to retrieve medical history?",Can a doctor find out if you have been treated for Chlamydia in the past without knowing your medical history?
If your number two is hard and dark what does that mean?,Any tips on how I can manage frequent hard stools?
I get very lightheaded quite often. Could it be because I am anemic?,Could feeling lightheaded and dizzy be due to anemia?
I had a low placenta and bled twice big around 1 am. Was that coincidence?,Can sudden heavy bleeding be cause by your placenta lying low?
I had back surgery 3 years ago and left with numbness in right leg and hip area. Could this treatment help me? L3-5 fusion with hardware,Can L3-5 fusion with hardware help alleviate leg and hip numbness after a back surgery 3 years ago?
I had two emblic strokes from endocarditis in 2012 ive had unbearable headaches for 3 years 24 hours a day what test would you recommend i have?,Could constant headaches for years be a result of embolic strokes due to endocarditis 7 years ago? Is there any testing that you suggest to confirm this?
"I have a hard small lump, under my skin anterior to my tragus, also have had extremely bad headaches-so bad they wake me in the middle of the night. ?","What could be causing a small, hard lump in front of my ear? Would a sudden headache in the middle of the night in addition be something to worry about?"
I have a lesion on my lower lip since last week and has not healed! I moisturize it to prevent cracking but now I have smaller bumps on upper lip!,Can herpes cause sores on the lips?
I have an iron deficiency and I'm not diagnosed but I pretty sure I'm anemic. I just want to know if spots of broken blood vessels could be a symptom?,I have small bleeding spots on my body. Is this caused by an Iron or Vitamin K deficiency?
I have a purple vein in the left side of my penis.It reaches the foreskin before disappearing.It just appeared yesterday.What should I do ?,How to treat purplish discoloration due to injuries?
"I have been seeing my periods every 2 weeks for numerous months, i used to be very regular, & I am a lot heavier please can u help?","My period has lately been quite frequent, literally every 2 weeks. The bleeding has also been quite heavy. What do you think is going on?"
I have big boobs and my nipples are not out. My nipples comes out when i'm cold or when i touch them. Is that normal for my nipples to pop out?,Is it normal for my nipples to get more prominent if I am feeling cold?
I have chronic hep C. A Dr I don't usually see prescribed metronidazole 500 mg for a bacteria infection. Should I be taking this with the liver issues?,Is it safe to take Metronidazole 500 mg when one has liver disease such as Chronic Hep C?
"I have had a head cold with congestion, I got a Rx of zpak I and took the lad dose today but for the last 4 days my left ear has felt clogged.","I have been antibiotics for a common cold. Is it possible to get an ear infection now, since I feel like like my ears are all clogged up?"
I have hypothyroidism. Recently my extremities are constantly cold and my limbs fall asleep easily. Could this be another autoimmune disorder?,"Can hypothyroidism cause the limbs to feel cold or numb sometimes? Or is this something more serious, like an autoimmune disorder? "
I have psoriatic arthritis and also have fibromyalgia.  The weather seems to have an effect on how much pain i feel. What do doctors think about this?,Can weather worsen pain from psoriatic arthritis and fibromyalgia?
I have stage 4 chondromalacia in both knees with stable varicose veins in the left knee as well and right paracentral disc protrusion in t8-11 meaning?,"Can you help me understand my results? It says"" Stage 4 Chondromalacia in both knees with stable varicose veins in both knees along with right paracentral protrusion from T8-11."""
"I'm 26 and get constant, multiple times a day hot flashes. I sweat very easily and have had a major appetite decrease. High anxiety, poor sleep.","I am in my 20s and here to discuss a few symptoms I have been facing. I have noticed hot flashes multiple times in a day, excessive sweating, loss of appetite, anxiety and difficulty sleeping. What do you thinking is causing this?"
I'm 42 female with lower back pain what could it be?,How to help find relief from low back pain due to metastatic cancer?
I'm a female age 29. Have pain by my belly button on and off. More recently have problem having a bum but only when pain is present. Possible hernia?,"I am a 29 year old female. The area around my belly button has been hurting on and off. But, recently, I have also noticed a swelling that shows up along with the pain. Do you think it could be a hernia?"
"I'm stressed about being pregnant and my period started getting light and short, could my stress cause this?",Can stress cause the period to last shorter? Or am I pregnant?
I often get cysts in my neck. How can I make them stop.,Any ideas on how to stop these cysts from forming on my neck?
I quit smoking. How many years until my lungs are clean?,How many years after quitting smoking do the lungs get back to normal?
Is a fast heartbeat normal after taking methylprednisolone?,Can methylprednisolone cause my heart to beat really fast?
Is a two day period with light cramps normal? I usually have it for 3-4 days with very bad cramps. Could i be pregnant?,Could a pregnancy cause a very short period lasting 2 days wth very light cramping?
Is cirrhosis of the liver cancer?,Can I lose a lot of weight if I have cirrhosis?
Is hydroderm for jock itch?,Can I use Hydroderm for itching in the genital area?
Is it possible for a teenager to have really bad stomach acid? It's gotten worse and I usually avoid trigger foods  but lately even antacids don't help,How is gastritis treated medically?
Is it possible for common antacids to neutralize the acid that plaque produces and causes cavities?,Can antacids help prevent cavities?
Is it possible to cure cataract without a lens implant but with corrective lenses?,Can only corrective lenses without an implant cure cataract?
Is there a way to lose my lower belly fat and see abs?,How does liposuction help get rid of belly fat?
Is vaginal itching normal during ovulation?,I ovulated a couple days ago and feel itchy in my vaginal area. What can I use to relieve the itching?
Itopride hydrochloride is this a helpful medication?,How would Itopride Hydrochloride help me?
It's only three it doesn't hurt I might of thought I had touch something it's kind of pink I'm not sure it's freaking me out?,How can a mild rash be treated?
I've had a bilateral neck dissection for thyroid cancer in 2011. My neck has been swollen for 3 years. Should I see a lymph node specialist?,"I had neck surgery 8 years back, however, my neck has been swollen for 3 days. Would seeing a lymph node specialist be the next step?"
"I've had swellings that have reoccurred on my labia majora thrice or so, but now I have a reddish roundish little sore. I'm not sexually active at all.",Does herpes cause sores and swelling of the vaginal area?
"I wear a nightly mouthguard currently, but i was wondering if any damage from bruxism is reversible over time (does enamel heal)?",Can destroyed enamel from bruxism regrow? I have started wearing a night guard recently and wanted to know if things could go back to normal?
I workout pretty hard and recently my knee has been clicking when I walk down stairs or try to do any leg exercises. No pain. What could this be?,"I have noticed a clicking of the knee joint when walking downstairs. Surprisingly, there has been no pain. What is causing this?"
Just received news I have on old compression fracture causing me pain now what can I do to alleviate pain because my doc said nothing they can do?,Can compression fractures during old age be treated?
Lately I have been getting these weird bumps behind my ears and inside my ears. Does this mean anything medically?,How can I treat frequent bumps in the ears due to allergies?
Legs feel like something is crawling on them but there's nothing. What is this weird feeling?,How do I find relief from this crawling sensation on my legs?
Light headed high fever headaches and body aches. Fever is 103 what could this be and what should he take?,"Are fever, headache, body ache common symptoms of a flu?"
"My 5m old has fever, runny nose, cough, and diarrhea. Should I bring her in?","My 6 month old has a fever, runny nose, cough and diarrhea? What antibiotic would be helpful?"
"My beard is growing back in, and it's itchy with red bumps. Besides conditioner, is there anything I can do for the itchiness and red bumps?",Can using a conditioner cause an ingrown hair problem in the beard area?
My dad has a lump on his bicep just slightly after the crease of his forearm. Its no longer as bruise and it never cause him pain but the lump remains?,How would you suggest managing small bumps from injuries during workouts?
My friend is also on nuva ring. What happens if she washed her ring with really hot water cuz she's stressing out about it.?,How often does one need to change Nuvaring?
My jaw makes a popping noise when I chew. Is this serious?,What are symptoms of a jaw dislocation?
My lower back is making me feel painful all the time. Is there a way to cure this. Will playing badminton and going for diving make it worst?,"What surgeries can be tried out for long term, low back pain?"
My period is a week early and heavier then usual what could that mean?,Is it normal to experience a period during pregnancy?
My red blood cells stay around 5.6-5.9 all the time. Hemoglobin always between 16.9-18.0 and hematocrit always between 50-55%. Is this dangerous?,Can one notice high hematocrit levels after blood transfusion?
"My stomach is always making rumbling noises, whether or not I have just eaten. I never have much gas though. Noises are very loud. What is this?",How do I prevent embarrassment from loud stomach noises in public?
Okay so i'm on bc and I have had sex (it hurts) i'm bleeding brown and my vagina hurts almost itchy but it hurts?,I have been noticing brown discharge for 2 days. My vaginal area has also been itchy and painful. Do you think I am pregnant and that BC failed for me?
Periodic numbness in left arm that comes with short chest pains and me gasping for air. All conditions come and go. What's going on?,How do I get rid of these chest pains and arm numbness due to my anxiety?
Period over 4 days ago. But Period alike (like) tingle and bit of cramps now.  Nothing major. Is this Bcoz of HPV I have? Does it cause pain? CIN1 too,I am 21 years old and have a regular period. Should I be getting an HPV vaccine?
Please help me with fibromyalgia ptsd bipolar and high anxiety?,How is fibromyalgia diagnosed?
Pushups - should hr or BP drop first? for me the hr drops quick but neck still pulsating very hard so is that dangerous to have low hr and high bp?,Should I be doing pushups if I have a high blood pressure?
Side effect of prolixin (fluphenazine)?,Can you tell me what side-effects to expect with Fluphenazine?
Tuberous sclerosis. Which insurance covers laser treatment for angiofibromas? Best treatments for angiofibromas? Laser treatment is ineffective.,Can you tell me more about Tuberous Sclerosis and how to manage it better?
What are the contra-indications of lasik?,Is lasik used to treat far-sightness or near-sightedness?
What are the main signs of staph infection?,How do I know if I have a staph infection?
What can cause cancer underneath the eye?,Are there any factors that can trigger cancer to form below the eye?
What can I do for a dislocated jaw?,Can a dislocated jaw be treated at home?
What causes kidney stones ?  Is it in the genes or diet,Does the tendency to get kidney stones lie in the genes or the diet?
What does it mean to have low ts4?,Can a low T4 be treated with Iodine supplements alone?
What does it mean when everything smells and taste the same,Which nerve carries the sensation of taste and smell?
What if I strained my hamstring but I can still walk? Something definitely popped in my hamstring but I can still walk im a hockey player,"I think I have a hamstring strain while playing hockey, but I can still walk. Is this normal?"
What is a good site for answers to dental problem? Ada or is that just party line?,Is ADA a good resource for answers to common dental problems?
What is it if you get spots on your legs that look like liver spots but they're black?,I have this black mole on the leg and it is bleeding. Could this be melanoma?
What is the cause of back pain? Lower Right side to the middle. Really bothering. Nothing changes in life style. Have lower abdominal discomfort too,Are there any medications to manage lower abdominal and back pain from an ovarian cyst?
What is the definition or description of: Lyme disease vaccine?,Can you give me more details about the vaccine for Lyme disease?
What is the normal body temperature for a male?,Is there a range for normal body temperature?
What is the use of the drug lovenox (enoxaparin)?,How is Lovenox used?
What should I consider before getting an intrauterine device?,Are there any contraindications to getting an intrauterine device?
What to do if I have stones in both of my kidneys one is a 7mm. If I just leave the stones alone will they?,Diuretics didn't help flush out a small stone in my kidney? What would be the next best option?
What to do if I'm beginning to have the 'turkey neck' problem. Do you know of any flex exercises that might help me?,"How to tell if one has a ""turtle neck?"
What virus causes swelling of the brain?,Can a virus cause a swelling of the brain?
When I watch my girlfriend bad words/insults come to my mind and I have to replace them with good ones. There is often words in my mind.Can it be OCD?,"I feel hatred towards my girlfriend when I see her and can think of abusive words, which I consciously replace with good ones. Is this a symptom of an OCD?"
When should I see a doctor for my toddler's fever? It's been around 103 all day and has peaked at 103.7. No other symptoms.,My 3 year old has had a fever hovering around a 103 for most of today? Is this something for which I should see his pediatrician?
When should someone think about having an arthroscopy of the knee?,How is an arthroscopy of the knee done?
"When you lose weight, when does it plateau?",How much weight is it safe to lose in a month?
Which are the top machines and work outs for cellulite on the butt and thighs?,Can cosmetic surgery help reduce cellulite?
Why am I having collapsed lung after heart surgery?,Can a collapsed lung be a complication of heart surgery?
Why are my lips always peeling?  What should I use as a good moisturizer?  Vaseline and  carmex does not work (of course).,Can you suggest a good moisturizer for chaffed lips?
"Why do my ears ""pop"" when I am weight lifting?",Can ear popping be due to an infection?
"Would you test for leukemia with chronic 15 WBC, low hematocrit, early satiety, fatigue and muscle weakness and malaise¿ Neg for ""usual suspects""?",What age group is leukemia common in?
About 8 weeks pregnant had vaginal bleeding like small period yesterday for 1 hour then was only light brown spotting passed blood clot. Feel fine. Miscary?,I am 8 weeks pregnant. I had vaginal bleeding yesterday with blood clots and severe lower abdomen cramps. My doctor said I could have miscarried. When can I try for next pregnancy?
After a hysterectomy do you start menopause immediately?,I am scheduled for hysterectomy next week. I have a lot of questions and anxiety about it. Does menopause start immediately after the surgery?
After car accident my leg and foot are numb and I have pain in my knee. Is it serious?,"I met with a car accident recently and I consulted my doctor immediately. My reports show simple fracture of leg bone at knee joint. I was put on a cast. My numbness of leg and foot subsided but my knee still hurts. I didn't go for physiotherapy, do you think it should be done? "
"After septorhinoplasty, (Im almost 4 weeks post op) how do you know if a residual dorsal hump is swelling or otherwise? Does the Dr. Really even know",I have a septorhinoplasty scheduled for tomorrow. I am very scared of surgeries and I am very much worried about my appearance after the surgery. How serious can the complications be?
Any tips on how to get my hair to stop falling out and start growing from stress? I had a large test I took at beginning of June stress from that,I have excessive hair loss due to stress. I got tested at the beginning of June. Any tips on how to deal with this hair loss and to grow back my hair?
A patient with COPD was receiving 12.5mcg of fentanyl. The gp double this dose to 25mcg. The patient died two weeks later. Is there any correlation?,I have COPD and I have been on 12.5mcg fentanyl. My doctor doubled up my dose but I don't want to. Can you tell me if I can try any measures at home for relief?
Are braces considered a cosmetic?,I am planning to be on braces for cosmetic reasons. How long should I be on it?
Are food intolerances like msg and onion permanent?,I am intolerant to msg and onion. I ate food at a restaurant a couple of hours ago and I was not aware that the particular dish had onion and msg. My abdomen started bloating and hurting after an hour and its very uncomfortable. What should I do now for relief?
Are surgical steel and surgical grade actually same thing?,I have a surgery scheduled this week and I was doing a little research on it. I came across terms 'surgical steel' and 'surgical grade'. Can you tell me if both are the same?
Are there any quick home remedies for slight belly ache and headache?,I have mild abdominal pain and headache for last 2 days. I have an important meeting at work today and I need this to subside quick. Can you suggest a few home remedies for relief?
Are there any side effects I should worry about if I have my 9 year old son use Milk of Magnesia (magnesium hydroxide) as a deodorant?,I read a lot about Milk of magnesia deodorants. Do they help with perspiration effectively?
"Blocked ears, runny nose and dry throat symptoms of hayfever or common cold?","I have blocked ears, runny nose, dry throat for last 3 days. I was told it could be hayfever but I don't have sneezing, watery eyes. There has been flu going around at my school and I think I may have common cold. I have a singing competition in next 2 days and I want this to subside by then. How long will it take?"
"Blood in urine, pain in flank. No burning, frequency. Bladder polyps or kidney stones?",I have been experiencing flank pain for last 3 days and noticed blood in urine yesterday but no burning sensation while passing urine or increased frequency of urination. Do I have kidney stones or bladder polyps?
Can contact dermatitis cause cutting of the vagina?,I have contact dermatitis in vaginal area and I recently noticed cuts with mild bleeding in my vagina. Is it possible for contact dermatitis to cause cuts in vagina?
"Can dental sealants be safely removed if there is decay under them without the use of a drill? If so, how will it be done?",I have tooth decay and I am planning to get dental sealants. I want a second opinion before getting it done. Is this a good option?
Can eating fast really make one fat?,I became a little plump but didn't gain weight significantly. I understand the reason could be eating fast because I do that a lot. What should I do to lose this weight apart from being on a diet?
Can ibs calm down at night then kick in in the day?,"I have IBS and recently, I notice that I experience symptoms only in the day and subsides at night. Is it typical of IBS?"
Can tuberculosis cause microscopic hematuria? I have cough for more than 3 weeks and microscopic hematuria,"I have been coughing for over 3 weeks. I got tested, that showed microscopic hematuria, does it indicate tuberculosis?"
"Could you tell me if my thumb is blue, swollen and I can't move it dose that mean its cracked?",I broke my thumb in an accident while lifting heavy boxes this morning. My doctor put a cast on it but I am worried about blood clot formation because it looks blue at the tip of my thumb. What are the chances of amputation if it doesn't heal?
Could you tell me what are melanocytic lesions?,I noticed a dark brown spot on my 1 year old son's thigh yesterday. I got worried and did a little research on it. Can you tell me what are melanocytic lesions exactly?
"Day 2 with tender,bloated,bruised feeling,hurts when I stand,move around,laugh or sit. lower abdominal/pelvic area. no uterus taken out 1yr ago.","I have been experiencing lower abdomen/pelvic pain on standing, sitting, laughing or moving around for last 2 days. It has been tender, bloated as well. I underwent hysterectomy a year ago, so I know it is not due to that. I have been working out and lifting heavy weights a lot lately. What can I do for relief?"
Diverticulitis cause lower backache?,"I have severe lower back ache but no lower abdomen pain, nausea, abdomen tenderness. I am anxious about diverticulitis as my mom has it. Do you think my lower back ache is due to diverticulitis?"
Does anyone know about hCG levels associated with a partial molar pregnancy?,My doctor said I have partial molar pregnancy as my hcg levels are through the roof. Can you tell me what parameters and what levels of hcg indicates partial molar pregnancy exactly?
Does drooping of the mouth come on quickly or slowly?,I notice drooping of my mouth on one side. I didn't get injured over head in any accident or majorly otherwise but I am a boxer with blows on head sometimes. Do I have concussion?
Does lung cancer always effect oxygen levels.,I have lung cancer and my oxygen saturation test showed 92% but it was 96% a couple of months ago. Does lung cancer affect oxygen levels?
Does time matter during ovulation ?,I had unprotected intercourse last night. I should be ovulating yesterday according to my period tracker. What are my chances of pregnancy?
Do you have to take antibiotics prior to gyn exam if you had tkr. I know you do this before dental exam. Wondering?,I underwent total knee replacement a couple of months and I was told to take antibiotic medications before my dental exam. I have a gynec exam scheduled tomorrow and I am wondering if I should take antibiotic medications. Any thoughts?
"Feeling down, tired of life, distressed, some sleep disturbances during working days, some weight gain and have rare suicidal ideation. Am I depressed?","I lost my closed one in an accident recently and I feel very low, tired of life, distressed. I am not able to sleep well at night and I feel drowsy at work, that disturbs my routine life. I gained weight as well and I think of commiting suicide sometimes. Do I have major depression?"
"Frequent unbearable leg cramps, what is the fastest way to relieve pain?",I have repeated intolerable leg cramps for last 2 weeks. Can you help me with remedies for a quick relief?
Had pruritus for 2 weeks. Went away but now I have abdominal and right flank pain. Could it be gallstones?,"I got tested last week and my doctor said I have gall stones. I have abdominal and right flank pain. The itch, that I had all over the body lasted for 2 weeks. Should I get a surgery done?"
"Heavy clotty period for 2 days then 3 days later I started bleeding again after sex. I have been feeling pressure in abdomen, I also had a fever ?","I had a very heavy period with blood clots but lasted only for 2 days. My period usually lasts for 5 days. After my period ended, I noticed bleeding after intercourse followed by fever and pressure in abdomen. I was diagnosed with endometriosis but I didn't consider any treatment yet. Do you think I should start taking birth control pills?"
"Hello doctor, i feel numbness and dizziness in my head and neck pain, pls help me ?",I have been feeling numb and dizzy with neck pain for last 3 days. What could be the cause?
Hello sir! I have a skin Color pimples in my vagina lips! Is dat any problem? I'm really scared!,Hi! I noticed skin colored bumps on my vaginal lips this morning and I am very scared. What could be the cause of these bumps?
"How accurate are the doctors measurements of the baby to determine baby weeks, due date, conception, ovulation etc...",My OBGYN said I am 30 weeks pregnant and my due date changed by 3 days according to my recent ultrasound scan. How can I calculate my due date exactly?
How bad is olive oil in your diet?,"I was told I have gastritis and I started using olive oil in my diet. But I don't like the taste at all. Is there any other type of oil, that I can use apart from olive oil for my gastritis? "
How does a boil look tender?,"I have a tender bump on my pubic area, that probably developed after I shaved the area a couple days ago? I will share a picture, can you tell me if it looks like a boil?"
How does mitral stenosis affect the heart?,I experience chest pain and palpitations and I am worried about heart conditions because my father has mitral stenosis. What are my chances of mitral stenosis?
"How does qcarbo16 work, I see people using it to pass drug test, well that's not why I brought it, I need to cleanse my body, how does it work, thanks?",I bought qcarbo16 recently to cleanse and detoxify my body. I want to let you know that I am aware that many people use it to pass drug test but that is not why I bought it. I want to know more about it before I take it. Can you tell me how does it work exactly?
How is your basal metabolic rate impacted by your basal energy expenditure?,How can I calculate my basal energy expenditure and basal metabolic rate?
How long does bleeding last after mirena (levonorgestrel) removal my af is not till the 16 of april I have always been regular,"My cycles have always been regular and my expected due date of period is 16th April. I got Mirena recently. I am worried it would disturb my cycles, what are the chances?"
How long does the pain for a root extraction last?,I got a root extraction done 2 days ago and it hurts a lot. My doctor gave me pain killer medications but can you tell me how long does this pain last?
How much do tummy tucks (witch hazel) usually hurt?,I am planning to get tummy tucks (witch hazel) done and I am worried about its complications. Does it hurt a lot?
How to know if you miscarried without passing fetus?,"I am 6 weeks pregnant. I have been reading articles about pregnancy care and I came across one that says chances of miscarriage are high during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. I am worried now, is this true? "
How would you measure how severe pectus excavatum is?,I have moderate pectus excavatum. I am worried if it may cause lung or heart related issues. What are the complications of pectus excavatum?
I am 42 I have only had my period 4 times in the last year. I get pain in my stomach but nothing happens. Any ideas why this could be occurring?,"I am 42 and I don't get my period every month. I think I will attain menopause soon. I am worried about the post menopausal changes such as mood swings, dry vagina, etc. Should I consider hormonal therapy?"
"I am experiencing  headache (better by: rest, nsaids (ibuprofen, naproxen, etc.)) (time frame: gradual onset) (side: left, right) (occurred: < 1 hr...","I have been experiencing headache on both sides, that started gradually and got worse. It gets better on taking rest and when I take ibuprofen, naproxen. It has been disturbing my daily routine and I am not able to concentrate. What could be the cause?"
I am having moderate to severe abdominal pain on my right side. Every time i poop Iit hurts really bad like a Charlie horse in my side.,I have moderate to severe right abdomen pain for last 2 weeks. It hurts a lot like a cramp on my side while passing stools. What could be the cause?
I bent over while sitting in a chair to pick up something and felt like something popped and I am now having pain on my left side around my ribs?,I have rib pain on left side. I felt a pop before this started when I bent over to pick something up while sitting on a chair. What could be the cause?
I didn't get my period for a month and now having pink discharge and a negative pregnancy test and still no period. What is going on?,I have PCOS and my cycles are irregular. I missed period by a month this time and I noticed spotting today. My doctor recommended birth control pills and I didn't want to be on it. Do you think I should consider this and start taking the pills?
"If I am allergic to normal earrings, can I put a coating of clear nail polish on the earring, or is that bad? I've read this on a few websites.",I am allergic to earrings and I applied a coat of clear nail polish on it as I read in an article that it avoids allergic reaction but it didn't help. I really like wearing earrings a lot. What should I do? Is there a solution?
If you had a CBC two years ago and you still have the same symptoms is it good to get a new one?,I was tired a lot and I looked pale about 2 years ago. I had a CBC then. But I still experience the same symptoms and I don't feel better. Is getting the CBC done again a good idea?
"I had a cold about a week and a half ago. Now I'm having very strong headaches and a pain on my left nasal, feels like the bone hurts on my left nasal?",I had cold 1.5 weeks ago but I started experiencing severe headache and pain in left nostril yesterday. Is it related to bone in my left nostril?
"I had a hysterectomy and removal of my tubes and ovaries. However, two years later, I had a very painful area in my pelvis and was told that I had endometriosis. Is this possible?","I was diagnosed with endometriosis by my doctor yesterday. It hurts a lot in my pelvic area and disturbs my daily routine. I got my uterus, tubes and ovaries removed last year. What should be the best approach for treating my endometriosis? "
I had unprotected sex on 6feb n my period was on 17feb. Had done 3 times test 2day morning also but all came negative? Doc. Given me cyclenorm e n p,I had unprotected intercourse 3 weeks ago and I took cyclenorm E & P the next day. I got my period after 3 days of unprotected sex. Do you think my cycles will be disturbed?
I have a brain cyst 3cm in left frontal lobe would it hurt if I was also pregnant?,I have a brain cyst of 3cm size in my left frontal lobe and I got pregnant recently. I am worried if brain cyst affects my pregnancy and my baby in any way. Can you help me understand this more?
I have ADHD is it possible for me to become a surgeon ? Be honest with me please,I am 19 now. I have ADHD since I was 10 years of age but I want to become a surgeon. Is it possible for me?
I have a small lump at the bottom of my right ear. Any idea what it could be? Thanks.,"I have a small lump below my right ear. It started oozing pus last night, I think it is a boil. Can you tell me if I can try any remedies for relief and for its healing?"
I have endometriosis and just had a miscarriage now the pain seems to be back stronger than before is this because of miscarriage?,I have endometriosis and I had miscarriage recently. Is the miscarriage because of my endometriosis? Will I ever be able to have kids?
I have had some pregnancy symptoms and I was four days late and had some brown discharge around the time of period and 2 nurses said they think I am?,I missed my period by 4 days but I noticed spotting on the day of my expected due date of period. I experience a few other signs of pregnancy. I asked 2 nurses and they think I can be pregnant. I am very nervous. What do you think are my chances of pregnancy?
"I have hypermobile joints and am experiencing right arm, elbow, shoulder and muscle pain. What can I do?","I have hypermobile joints and my right arm, elbow, shoulder and muscles hurt almost all the time. I was diagnosed with Ehler Danlos Syndrome and I am worried about its complications. Would I develop arthritis early in age?"
"I have lots of dry gangrene on right foot, lost 4 toes , but it doesn't go past the midfoot. Why would they amputate to knee? Why not just that part?","I have dry gangrene of left foot covering 3 toes for last 6 months but it never extends to foot. I am scared of surgery and I can't convince myself to get an amputation. What happens if I don't get the amputation done? If I get it done, do you think I'll be able to lead a normal life?"
I have mosquito bites all over my body from head to toe. I am itching all over. The bites are swollen and combined with other bites. What can I do?,"I got what I thought were mosquito bites all over the body recently, that itch a lot. I didn't bother much as I thought those would subside but they look worse this morning and I am worried it could be something else. I'll share pictures of those bumps. Can you tell me if those look like spider bites?"
I have no voice a huge knot on the right side of my neck and I have excruciating pain in throat. I was diagnosed with pharyngitis how can I get relief?,I lost my voice and my throat hurts a lot. I feel a huge mass on the right side of neck. I consulted my doctor and I was diagnosed with pharyngitis. I have been taking prescribed antibiotic medications for last 3 days but no relief yet. What measures can I try at home for relief?
I have pain on the left side of my neck when swallowing. Been going on for 3 days.,I have been experiencing neck pain on left side on swallowing for last 3 days. Did I pull the muscle?
I have this patch of peeling/blistering skin on the bottom of my foot. What is it and how do I get rid of it?,I have a patch of peeling/blistering of skin on the sole of my foot. I am not sure how and why I got it. Can you tell me what is it and how to get rid of it?
"I have this weird taste in my mouth, but no other symptoms of dry socket. What could be wrong?","I got my tooth extracted recently and I have weird taste in mouth but no severe pain, blood clot, etc. What could be the cause apart from dry socket?"
I having a flexible sigmoidoscopy and I have fleet ready to use when do I use it before going in to hospital ?,I am scheduled a flexible sigmoidoscopy for tomorrow. I got the fleet for enema from the pharmacy this morning. When should I use it?
I'm 5' 8'' and 109 lbs. When I lay down I can see my belly pulsing to the left of my belly button. Is this something I should be concerned about?,"I can see pulsations on the left side of my belly button on laying down. I am not overweight and I don't have belly fat. I am very much worried, what could be the cause?"
"Im in a lot of localized pain, I was diagnosed with an enlarged uterus, a bicornuate uterus, and some ovarian cysts.Pain is extreme. ER? or primary?","I have been experiencing severe lower abdomen pain for last couple of hours. I was diagnosed with enlarged uterus, bicornuate uterus and ovarian cyst. Should I go to an ER or wait until tomorrow to consult my doctor? I am very worried and not sure if this is serious enough to go to an ER. Please help. "
I'm starting to think I have a fracture of the talar dome. Any advice?,I got injured recently. An ankle Xray was taken and I was diagnosed with fracture of talar dome by my doctor. I am on cast currently. Will my fracture heal completely and will I be able to play soccer ever?
In an attempt to diagnose illness I have had 7 CT scans in 2 years . Because of new upper abdominal right side pain dr ordered hyda scan. Should i be concerned about  the radiation?,"CT scan was done 7 times in last 2 years to diagnose a medical condition. My doctor ordered HYDA scan to evaluate right upper abdomen pain, that I have for last 1 week. Should I be worried about the radiation exposure?"
In the middle of my chest under my breast bone it fells weird I cant explain it?,I have discomfort in the middle of chest under my breast bone. My diet has been a little off lately. What do you think could be the cause?
Irregular periods been taking fertility pills. 23days late and having symptoms of pregnancy but negative test what should I do?,I have been trying to conceive for a while and I have been taking fertility pills regularly for last 2 months. My cycles are usually irregular and I missed my period by 23 days. I notice a few signs of pregnancy but my urine pregnancy test came back negative today. What should I do now?
Is it normal to have bleeding after a colonoscopy that's not related to a bowel movement?,I got a colonoscopy done a couple of days ago and I noticed bleeding from my anal region today when I was not passing stools. Is this considered normal and expected after a colonoscopy procedure?
Is it possible for a sciatica pain to be in the top of my thighs?,"I have sciatica but recently, I have been experiencing pain at the upper aspect of my thighs. Is it due to sciatica?"
Is it possible to drink antidepressants for the whole life and to be in good health?,"Can I take antidepressant medications every day for the rest of my life without side effects, complications?"
Is it possible to have anxiety symptoms 24/7 for 2 years straight?,"I have anxiety with constant symptoms every day for last 2 years. I have been on medications but nothing helps. Do you think the dose or medication needs to be changed? Is there anything, that I can do apart from medications for relief?"
Is memory loss related to statins?,I have been researching a lot on memory loss but I need a professional opinion. Is memory loss a side effect of statins?
I sneezed and got rid of some phlegm in my throat (I have post nasal drip) and it was sort of clear but then again it had white stuff too what is it?,I have post nasal drip and I got rid of the clear phlegm with some white stuff on it on sneezing. What is that mucus and what could be the cause?
Is there any treatment for latent squint and fourth nerve palsy?,"I have latent squint due to fourth nerve palsy. I started seeing two images of every object, that I see recently. I forgot to ask my doctor about this. Is it due to fourth nerve palsy?"
Is there usually left shoulder/arm/jaw pain associated with angina pectoris?,My aunt has angina pectoris. Should she take medications every day?
"I've been experiencing dizziness for several months now, with occasional ear pain. Does this sound like a brain tumor or a sinus problem?","I have been experiencing dizziness with occasional ear pain for last few months. Do you think this indicates brain tumor or could it be just a sinus issue? I am so scared of brain tumor, please help me."
"I've got stitch like pain and  bleeding/ uterus feels heavy. I've had mirena (levonorgestrel) for 8 weeks now. This pain has only been the last week,  is this normal?",I got Mirena (levonorgestrel) inserted 8 weeks ago. I experience stinging pain for last 1 week associated with heaviness in my lower abdomen and I notice vaginal bleeding. Is this normal with Mirena?
I was curious how far along i'd be if the ultrasound said 6.5 cm/1.3/27 Hz at the top of my picture. ?,I am pregnant and my ultrasound scan reports show 6.5cm/1.3/27 Hz at the top of my picture. Does my baby have birth defects?
"I would like to know what cause cramps, slight fever, bloating, frequent peeing, headaches, fatigue, and nausea.","I have abdomen cramps and bloating with fatigue, headache, nausea. I have been peeing a lot but I haven't increased water intake lately. I developed low grade fever last night. I took tylenol but I am planning to consult my doctor tomorrow, what all tests would be done and what tests should I ask for?"
Most effective. Muscle relaxants for chronic. L4-l5 pain?,"I have been on muscle relaxant medications for my chronic lower back ache due to L4-L5 disc bulge for quite a while. It helped a lot but there hasn't been much relief lately. Should I consider other options such as physiotherapy, surgery? "
My 16 year old daughter is having left abdominal pain no fever and no burning with urination and just got off her period 2 days ago?,"I am 16 and I have left abdominal pain for last 3 days but no fever, burning sensation while passing urine. My period ended 2 days ago. What could be the cause?"
"My doctor may change my prescription (metoprolol)  as it is destroying my sex life. Can i ""get it back"" when i am prescribed a different beta blocker?",I experience difficulty with erection ever since I have been put on metoprolol for hypertension. I feel a lot better apart from this side effect and I want to continue the medication. Any tips on how to get over this difficulty with erection?
My doctor talked over my head. We are confused. What is amniotic infection?,I am 12 weeks pregnant. I had amniotic infection in my previous pregnancy and I am worried if I would have amniotic infection during this pregnancy. What are the chances?
"My mother in law have a pain in her left arm, she never suffer from her heart before, and the fingers move by themself what could or be?",My mother-in-law experiences left arm pain and finger twitches. Her EKG and ECHO reports are normal. She has been stressed a lot lately as she lost her husband and we think she is depressed and is anxious. Should we take her to her doctor or would she be fine after grieving for a while?
"My Patella is tender to touch, and hurts and pops when the knee is bent. There isn't any noticeable swelling. But there is pressure around patella.",I patella is tender but there is no visible swelling in that area. It hurts and pops on bending my knee and I feel pressure around patella. What could be the cause.
My pelvis/lower abdomen pain 2 months after a c-section. Feels like cramps?,"I had a C section done 2 months ago and my lower abdomen started hurting last night, that feels like cramps. I never had cramps with period in the past. Is it due to C section? If yes, why is this happening after 2 months of C section?"
Nausea everyday missed period headaches but not pregnant what could be wrong?,I feel sick every day in the morning along with throbbing headache. I missed my period by a week this month. Am I pregnant?
Need help docs! My friend ate some raw chicken on accident so he could get worms or parasites?,My friend ate raw and uncooked chicken last night. Would he get worms and parasitic infections in his stomach now?
"Only one sexual partner and cervical dysplasia reoccured, what's wrong?","I had cervical dysplasia, that subsided but it is back again according to my recent pap smear reports. I am very worried about it and I don't want to deal with this anymore. Should I consider biopsy and surgical approach with removal of uterus and cervix?"
"Pain in the right leg that goes and goes, sometimes on the side, sometimes in the groin. Burns behind the knee and gets worse with cold. What can be?","I have on & off pain on the side of right leg and sometimes in the groin. I also experience burning sensation behind the knee, that gets worse when I am cold. Do I have a blood clot in my leg? If yes, what could be the treatment?"
Please explain why does my amalgam (filling) hurt?,I am scheduled for an appointment with my dentist for amalgam filling in my tooth. Does it hurt?
"Right side sharp pains, bottom of rib cage?",I got injured over chest while playing soccer recently and it has been hurting on the right side of chest at the bottom of rib cage ever since. Should I get an Xray? What can I do for relief at home?
"Severe jaw joint pain started 24 hours ago, right side. Pain when opening mouth and clenching. Should I go to the ER? Worse as day went on. TMJ?","I have TMJ and it has become worse in last 1 week with severe pain of jaw on right side, especially on opening mouth and on clenching. It has been very difficult to talk. I have my doctor's appointment scheduled for tomorrow. What can I do for relief in the meanwhile?"
"Sharp, localised pain on top of head, about 10 degrees from the centre, in a slight indentation of my parietal bone. Recurrent for a few days. Cause?","I had an injury over the head last month, that caused mild indentation on my parietal bone. I have sharp pain in that region for last 2 days. I didn't consult a doctor yet as I thought I was fine. I will schedule an appointment with my doctor. Can you tell me what I can do in the meanwhile for relief?"
Should I take my inhaler before I go in to see the doctor for a check up?,I have asthma and I am on an inhaler. I have an appointment scheduled with my doctor tomorrow. Should I carry my inhaler to the doctor's clinic?
Should I use the nicotine patch to quit smoking? Or should I try electronic cigarettes?,I am addicted to smoking and I want to quit. I am wondering if nicotine patch or electronic cigarettes help better in quitting smoking. Any suggestions?
Small bruises all over 3 year old female. Showing up with no apparent cause. Doctor Monday but worried As to why there are so many for no reason.,My daughter is 3 and I noticed small bruises all over her body yesterday. She didn't fall or had any injury. I didn't apply any new cream on her. I have scheduled an appointment with her pediatrician but I am very worried. What could be the cause?
Sure I am not pregnant right? . If I have polycystic ovary periods can get irregular right?,I have PCOS and my cycles are irregular. We have been trying to conceive and I am concerned about my chances of pregnancy with PCOS. Will I ever be able to have a kid?
"Symmetrical legs & feet; numb, weak & tingly. Painful to walk @rest, both feet throb til they both go ""numb"". Is this due to my chronic back pain?","I have chronic back pain. Recently I started experiencing numbness, weakness and tingling sensation on both legs and feet, that hurt on walking. At rest, my legs and feet throb until numbness sets in. Is this due to my back ache?"
"Symptoms of ectopic but negative test.? Like dizziness, lower right abdominal pain, shoulder pain. I'm think ectopic coz I only feel this all after sex","I have been experiencing dizziness, right lower abdomen pain, shoulder pain for last 5 days. I had unprotected sex last week and I think I have ectopic pregnancy but my urine pregnancy test today came back negative. What could be the cause of my symptoms?"
"Testicle scan showed 4 cysts. But I have constant dull ache. The pipe above testicle is prominent, no infection seen. What could be causing the pain?","I got injured in the genital area a few months ago but I started experiencing dull ache last week when I lifted heavy weights. My doctor did a testicular scan, that showed 4 cysts and a prominent cord above testicle but no infection. I am worried because the pain is back on lifting heavy weights. Will I develop hernia? "
The lower right side of my face hurts when I open my mouth. Anybody have any idea? Could it be tmj?,I have TMJ and I take over the counter pain killer medications when the pain is severe but there hasn't been much relief lately. What else should I do for relief?
"The muscles in my hips right above my butt ache a lot. Most times it pinches with pain. I wear high heels all the time, hurts to wear flats?",My hip muscles hurt a lot above my buttock like a pinch. I wear heels usually and it hurts on wearing flats. What could be the cause?
Weird lightheaded feeling 24:7 for yrs Ent dr said not allergies had bloodwork done neuro examine at PC dr all good they say anxiety could it be?,"I have constant lightheadedness for last few years. I consulted an ENT and a PCP, neuro exam, allergy test, blood work all came back negative. Is it due to anxiety?"
What antibiotic prescribed for infected cyst?,I have an infected cyst and I completed the prescribed antibiotic course of medications yesterday but I still experience the symptoms though mild. How long should it take for the symptoms to subside completely?
What are obsessive compulsive disorder (ocd) and tourette syndrome?,I have Tourettes Syndrome since childhood and I think I have Obsessive compulsive disorder recently. What are the chances for these to coexist?
What are the causes of lower back pain in women?,"My aunt has lower back ache for last couple of years, that has been getting worse. She attained menopause and was recommended calcium supplements by her doctor. Should she be trying anything else for relief or get any tests done?"
What are the clinical symptoms of myocardial infarction?,"I experience left sided chest tightness and pressure with pain and shortness of breath. I also experience discomfort over left shoulder. I am scared I have a heart attack, can you tell me what are the symptoms of myocardial infarction?"
What are the treatments for a pinched nerve?,"I got injured a week ago and I have been experiencing numbness, tingling sensation over my left calf. I think I have a pinched nerve. What should I do for relief?"
What can a pain mean in right hand side next to bladder. It comes and goes and is quite severe?,"I have on & off severe right lower abdomen pain, especially while passing urine. What could be the cause?"
What can be done for really sharp pain in left ankle?,I got injured over left ankle last week. I had severe pain over left ankle and got tested. The Xray showed hairline fracture and my doctor put me on cast. How long would it take for it to heal?
What can cause hematuria with sharp pain in urq of abdomen nausea dizziness and water retention cat scan ultrasound urine culture normal no fever?,"I have sharp pain in upper right quadrant of abdomen. I noticed orange colored urine and I feel dizzy, bloated. All of my test reports came back normal. I have hemophilia and I think my kidney needs further evaluation. I am so scared, do you think I would need any surgery?"
What can cause stabbing eye pain after sleep?,I have severe eye pain and my eyes turn red often. It subsides on getting some sleep and on staying away from screen. I have to admit that I don't drink much water. What should I do for relief?
What happens if my ovary is not visualized that mean I can't have kids?,"I underwent an ultrasound scan pelvis recently, that didn't show ovaries. I was told to come back after 2 weeks for a repeat scan. I have been trying to conceive and I didn't undergo any surgery till date. Does the absence of ovaries mean I won't be able to have children?"
What is a good substitute for peanut butter?,I didn't know I was allergic to peanut and I ate peanut butter yesterday. Can you tell me a few measures for relief?
"What is the cause and the solution of what seems to be a traveling pocket of gas up and down my back, chest, rib cage with sometimes a griping pain?","I have something, that seems to be a travelling pocket of gas up and back my back, chest, rib cage. It also causes gripping pain sometimes. Can you tell me what can be the cause and how can it be treated?"
What is the cause of pubic bone pain?,I am 7 weeks pregnant and I have mild pubic bone pain for last 2 days. Should I be worried?
What is the difference between Refractory Chronic Migraines and Transformed Migraines? With CM do I need a headache specialist for general neuro?,"I was diagnosed with chronic migraine in my childhood and there hasn't been any episode for last 2-3 years. I experienced severe headache last night and I am wondering if it is due to refractory chronic migraine or transformed migraine. Can you help me with the differences between these two types of migraine? Also, should I consult a headache specialist or general neurologist with my chronic migraine?"
What is the procedure involved with open heart surgery?,I underwent an open heart surgery last month. I used to work out for an hour before the surgery as a part of my routine. Can I resume my workouts now?
What is the reason for fluid coming out right after intercourse?,I had intercourse recently and I notice vaginal discharge immediately after intercourse. What could it be?
What makes a dentist different from an oral surgeon?,I got my wisdom tooth removed by an oral surgeon yesterday as referred by my dentist. What type of foods should I eat and for how long?
What might cause a lot of pain in the fleshy part of my hand below the thumb?,I got injured today over the fleshy part of hand below thumb while playing volleyball. I applied ice packs for a while. It caused numbness and I am not able to feel that area nor move my thumb. Did I make it worse? What should I do?
What muscles contribute to lower back pain?,"I have lower back ache for last few months, that has been getting worse lately. This started when I started working out. I want to understand what muscles attribute to lower back ache so that I can avoid workouts causing strain of these muscles. Can you help me with this?"
What quantity of lortab 10mg equal 15mg oxycodone?,I took two pills of lortab 10mg 4 hours ago. I forgot about that and I took a pill of oxycodone 15mg a couple of minutes for my severe headache. Do they interact with each other? Will I be okay?
What questions should I be asking when looking for a pain management doctor for my 85-year-old father who has severe back pain? (history of surgeries),My 85 year old father has scoliosis and he underwent multiple surgeries in the past but the back ache is still severe. His pain management doctor gave medications but we are worried the NSAIDs may affect his kidney and liver. Is there any other solution for this?
What to do about depression of seeing spirits and just being upset overall?,I can see spirits and I get upset easily. I was diagnosed with depression and I am taking medications regularly. Does it last for the rest of my life?
When do i ovulate if my last period was last month on the 28th and i have a 31 day cycle ?,I am trying to conceive and I want to know when I would be ovulating exactly. I got my last period on 28th of last month and my cycles are of 31 days. Can you help me calculate my ovulation date?
Where can I find a good natural gout treatment?,"I have gout and I don't want to take medications. I prefer natural treatment, can you help me with a resource on it?"
Which brand of natural progesterone cream is most suitable for a girl with pcos?,I was recently diagnosed with PCOS and my friend said progesterone cream usually helps but I wonder what its role is in the treatment of PCOS. I am sorry if this sounds dumb but can you help me understand this?
"Why am I having acute post-abortion abdominal pain 3 months after surgical procedure? I can't talk, walk, lift, stand, or even wear underwear too much?","I have acute severe pain abdomen today causing difficulty in walking, talking, lifting, standing for long. I should mention that I underwent surgical abortion 3 months ago. Is this pain related to the abortion?"
Why do i feel pain on my left arm?,I have left arm pain with bleeding since yesterday. I got injured while playing and someone hit me by accident on my arm yesterday. What can I do for relief? Can you also give me a few tips for faster healing of my wound?
"1 never had intercourse, no STDs known, vaginal irritation, sometimes pain, not much pain with urination, irritation through the entire day.","I am 16 year old, a virgin, no STDs. I have vaginal irritation all through the day, occasional pain, not much of pain while passing urine.   "
"1 day missed period and vaginal area is dry, why?",I am late for my period by one day and have vaginal dryness. Do you have any ideas why?
"1st mth off of birth cont. I got my 'real' period, lasted about 6 days, today's day 9 & i'm lightly spotting (just 1x a day) for the past 2 days-odd?",I got my first full blown period after getting off birth control last month. It lasted for 6 days and I am still bleeding light for the last 2 days. Is that normal?
"2 days past ovulation  had sex 3 times but started following symptoms cramping slight nausea more bowel movements, fatigue, gas - can I be preg?","Does it mean I am pregnant if I have symptoms like cramps, slight nausea, gas, tiredness? I had sex thrice two days after ovulation."
Am taking Duphaston day 11 to day 25 when do expect my period?,What are the side effects of Duphaston?
"B12:145 ng/L Range 130-800ng/L Result statesJust in Range Have a Few Sympt, Neurologist says not low but GP started loading dose 6 injections? Ideas",My tests results are as follows : B12:145 ng/L Range 130-800ng/L. My GP started loading dose of 6 shots but was told it is not low by neurologist. I don't have much symptoms. What shall I do?
Been prescribed steroid nasal spray for post nasal drip. Symptoms are very uncomfortable is there something different I can do? How important is it?,How long can I continue to use steroid nasal spray for post nasal drip?
"Been sick for over a week with a dry/wet cough, very runny nose, and no apparent fever. OTC cold medicine has not worked, and I'm currently on antibiotics to treat a UTI (Bactrim I believe). I'm pretty sure this is more than just a cold, seeing how nothin",Can antibiotics for UTI (bactrim) treat my cough and congestion?
Can being anemic cause your period to last longer?,Does anemia have any effects on cycle length? Because I have long period this time.
Can cyclical vomiting syndrome cause miscarriages?,Am I at risk of a miscarriage with cyclical vomiting?
Can having a shaved penis alter sex performance?,Can shaving penis give painful bumps?
Can i get high liver enzymes due to prostatitis or scar tissue in the urinary tract due to past STD trauma?,How do I know if I have STDs?
Can i have sex while taking cyclogest (progesterone)?,How will cyclogest help me?
Can obesity cause bilateral pitting edema? And how to get rid of it?,Can you please explain what is pitting edema?
Can orchitis problem effect my digestion or cause drooling ?,How is orchitis treated?
Can pink eye be cured with g.E. Sulfameth/tmp ds can g. E. Sulfameth/ tmp ds cure pink eye?,How can I help with pink eye at home?
Can seroquel (quetiapine) cause gerd?,How does seroquel (quetiapine) work?
Can there be a link between celiac's disease and polycystic ovarian syndrome (pcos)?,Is there any association between celiac's disease and PCOS?
Can u get pregnant from pre cum?,How do I know if there was precum?
Can you jump/dive into a pool when you're 9weeks pregnant?,Can I go swimming/diving in a pool at 9 weeks pregnant?
Can you recover from planter falsities and if what is the recovery time?,What are the symptoms of plantar fascitis?
Can you take l-lysine while trying to become pregnant?,Is L-lysine safe while trying for conception?
Could anybody get neuropathy in forearms and hands?,Can neuropathy affect forearms and hands of a person?
Describe the features of a bone avulsion.?,Do I need a surgery for bone avulsion?
Does DMSO help plantar fasciitis?,Is there a role of DMSO in plantar fascitis treatment?
Does drinking soda and juice harm the baby if you are pregnant?,Are soda and juice considered safe in pregnancy?
Does eradication of h. Pylori cause weight gain?,Can I get rid of H.Pylori without antibiotics?
"Does food poisoning cause permanent damage? I heard in a study that it causes kidney damage, diabetes, and high blood pressure later on.","Is it true that food poisoning can give problems like kidney damage, diabetes, hypertension due to some permanent damage done to the body?"
Had protected sex nov 21 and got period on dec 13 could I be pregnant?,Got period twice in last month. Can I be pregnant?
Had sex 2 days before ovulation and a day after ovulation can I get pregnant?,Can pregnancy happen with sex 2 days before and one day after ovulation?
Haven't got my period since July cause I'm irregular could I still get pregnant?,I get irregular period but I want pregnancy. Any tips?
Hello. My 18 yr old special needs daughter just had blood work. The Lymphocytosis 3.8.Her Leukocyte Esterase is 500. What does that mean?,"Can you help understand the test results of my special needs daughter? Her lymphocytes are 3. Leukocyte Esterase is 500."
"Help! Rash on right leg, will not go away, doctors can't help, what is it and what do I do now?",Can I put petroleum jelly on a rash on my leg?
How can I prevent glaucoma?,What are some preventive measures for glaucoma?
How can I prevent orthostatic hypotension?,What are some preventive measures for orthostatic hypotension?
How can you stop bloating during your period?,Do you have any tips for bloating while on period?
How does a person get hyperthermia?,Can you explain the causes of hypothermia?
How does one break their arm playing volleyball?,How do playing sports like volleyball makes get an arm fracture?
How do I tell the difference between an allergy and a sinus infection?,Can you tell me some OTC medications for allergies and sinus infection?
How do occupational therapists help people with eye injuries to ambulate safely?,Does occupation therapy have any role in early rehabilitation of people with eye injuries?
How do we decide who takes mom?,My mom has a fever. We are not able to decide if it needs a check up.
How long does belly pain associated with hyperemesis gravidarum last?,How can I treat hyperemesis gravidarum and associated cramps at home?
How long does it take to recover from uveitis in the eye?,How do one gets uveitis in the eye?
How soon after im off the Depo-Provera provera (medroxyprogesterone) shot can I get pregnant?,How does Depo-Provera protect against pregnancy?
How to prevent catching flu from a visitor who never learn to put hand on mouth while coughing... Will hand gel help me?,What are some preventive measures against catching flu from a visitor who never covers his mouth while coughing. Does hand gel has a role?
How to tell if nuvaring side effects or early signs of pregnancy?,How can I differentiate between side effects of nuvaring and early pregnancy symptoms?
How to treat razor scar from shaving?,Got a razor scar from shaving. Any helpful remedies?
I am almost a month pregnant and I started spitting. It started out pink now it's like a reddish color is that normal?,I am 4 weeks pregnant and started spotting pink which turned into red. Is that a bad sign?
I am having troubles and confusing moments with my body and I am scared I may be pregnant by my research online and I really want some advice ?,I am trying to get pregnant but scared and nervous. Can I buy a test online?
"I been on depo for about 2/3 years and off for 5 months. I want to get pregnant but haven't had a menstrual cycle, what can I do?",Can I continue using depo for 2 to 3 years?
I came on my period two time last month this month my boyfriend came inside me and I'm bleeding 4 days after we had sex?,Can we have sex if I am bleeding?
If a person has chronic hyperventilation syndrome and takes a pft and methacholine challenge test would the results be affected? Mine showed asthma.,Can I get asthma because of chronic hyperventilation syndrome?
I got on the Birth Control shot on a Friday and had sex on Wednesday if he ejaculated can I still get pregnant?,Am I safe having sex two days after getting Birth Control Shot?
I had a miscarriage last night. I was 13 weeks. How soon after miscarriage can you try again. Can you get preg. Faster after mc like u can after birth?,Had a misscariage at 13 weeks last night but I want to conceive fast again. How long do I need to wait before trying for pregnancy?
"I had a salpingectomy in both tubes 4 years ago, but I want to be pregnant again, can it be possible?, can I get pregnant naturally?,",Is it possible to get pregnant if one has undergone salpingectomy a few years back? Do you known about any natural methods?
"I had blood drawn, 1hr later I lifted weights and I noticed a small bump fill with blood where I got poked at, is this normal? Hel asap Docs",I have a blood filled bump. Can I treat it at home?
I had unprotected sex just over 2 weeks ago. Had light cramps and sore breasts with darkening areola which has never happened. Got light period. Preg?,"I am experiencing symptoms like light cramps, dark areola, sore breasts and had light period. Important pasrt is I indulged in unprotected sex over 2 weeks back. Does this mean I am pregnant?"
I have a lot of tiny red bumps in between my eyebrows. I thought it was pimples so I used benzoyl peroxide & that didn't work. Is it eczema?,How long can I continue using benzoyl peroxide for my pimples?
I have been clean off alcohol for 1 year and 8 months and recently drink 0.0 6 pack a day. Is this bad for my liver and health. Drink it to avoid beer?,I have not drank alcohol for a year and 8 months now. Can recently drinking 0.06 pack a day affect my liver?
"I have developed these random red patches on my torso, neck, and back that flare up and disappear every once in a while. They do not itch. Why?","Every once in a while I get flare ups of non itchy random red patches on my torso, neck and back which disappear on their own. What's happening? "
I have had 11 sets of ear tubes since age 6. Is there another solution rather than getting more? The set I've had in for 3 months just came out.,How does an ear tube work?
"I have had a couple of pregnancy symptoms, but the home tests i've taken are all negative and I started what I think is my period today.....I need some help figuring out what could be wrong. Any thoughts?",I have been experiencing some pregnancy symptoms lately and got negative pregnancy tests. Today I started bleeding. Is it my period?
I have the birth control mirena (levonorgestrel) and I have irregular periods but i also have brown discharge so what does that mean?,I am on mirena (levonorgestrel). Is it normal to get irregular period and brown discharge?
I have this rash for along time on my breast comes and goes I made a appointment but it's kind of fading can they still test it and diagnose me?,I have an on and off breast rash. Can my local doctor order tests and diagnose it even if it is fading away?
"I have three positive first response pregnancy tests with morning sickness two weeks ago but not since then, are the positive tests true positives?",Got a positive pregnancy test today. I have bad morning sickness. Can you help?
I m 28 yrs having irregular periods . My BP  was 144/101 is it normal ? What to do?,Do you think I need to see my local doctor for BP 144/101 mmhg?
"I'm almost 35 weeks pregnant. And I had a ultrasound done at my high risk Dr appt today. The baby's growth rate is at the 22 percentile, weight is 4 lbs and 14 oz. If the % goes below 20%, will the baby still be healthy at delivery?","Here are the details of my ultrasound done at my 35 weeks (high risk) appointment.. Baby's growth is at 22 percentile, weight is 4 lbs and 14 oz. Does it affect the baby if it drops to 20 percentile?"
"I'm an athlete, I play water polo, football, And do some long distance running. Will taking prednisolone 50mg per day HUGELY impact my lifestyle?",How long can I continue to take prednisolone for my allergies?
I'm in the process of losing 30lbs and trying to get pregnant. If I conceive can I stay on weight watchers while I'm pregnant?,Can I continue to lose weight if I get pregnant. My target is to lose 30 lbs but I am also TTC.
I'm worried that I'm pregnant but I think I ovulated yesterday?,Do you ovulate while being on BC pills?
I need someone that can help me. It's been 2 weeks now that I have finished my period but now I am still bleeding and I am very nauseous.,I am bleeding again while I finished my period 2 weeks back.It is making me nauseous. Please help.
I need some tips on how to reduce abdominal fluid retention?,What are some helpful measures to help with abdominal fluid retention?
I often do masturbation in a day. I did it 5 times more in a day then it led to swollen penis skin. What are the disadvantages and advantages of it?,I am experiencing penile skin swelling today after masturbating multiple times today.Can you guide me if too much masturbation is healthy or would have any harmful effects?
Is having a cycle important? I haven't had a decent period in almost my whole life....What can be wrong with me?...  I'm 23 yrs old...,I am 23 years old and get regular cycles. I want conception. Any advice?
Is it normal for a child's scab to turn really dark after swimming in a pool. Is it safe to go swimming again?,Can swimming darken my child's scab and is he allowed to go back again?
Is it normal for an eye infection tostart out red and swollen and pus filled to looking like a pus filled swelling that now looks like a blood blister?,Can you get a blood blister from an eye infection? It started out as a red and pus filled swelling.
Is it normal to have cramps before and after period?,Do women get cramps before starting and finishing with the period?
Is it ok to induce your period while on the sugar pills?,Can I skip my sugar pills and still be safe?
Is it possible to be suffering allergic reactions from my roommate if she has a dog? How to find out?,Can I get allergies from my roommate's dog? How can I be sure?
Is it possible to bleed if you are prego? 3 neg hpt.,I have got three negative pregnancy tests. Do you get bleeding in pregnancy?
Is it possible to ovulate one day after period stop?,How can I track my ovulation?
Is it safe to take apple cider tablets when pregnant?,Can I take apple cider tablets in pregnancy?
I started taking PPIs (8 weeks) and antibiotics (one week) for treating h.pylori and gastritis. Can I do strength exercises like pushups and running?,Will doing strength exercises like pushups and running help me with gastritis?
Is the gm diet a good one?,I am on gluten free diet. What all I need to avoid?
Is there any way to stop my period for a little while without a prescription?,Are there any natural ways to stop my period without having to visit a local doctor?
"It started with a headache the next day came dizziness when I move my eyes, soreness behind my eyes, 102 fever, slight cough. Help!","I had a headache and this was followed by dizziness on moving the eyes, soreness behind my eyes, high grade fever (102) and slight cough. Can you help me?"
It still possible i can get pregnant with a small ovary?,Do I need treatment for a small ovary?
I've been having uterus/something spasms for a while now. I know I'm not pregnant and it happens randomly. Should I be worried?,I am getting random uterine cramps for a while now. It is not pregnancy. Is that concerning?
"I've had a bump in my groin area for about a year, recently  a burning sensation. And in last two days it turned red and the bump Bigger and more pain?",Do I need to worry about a bump in my groin area which has been there for the last around one year?
I've had a lump by my belly button and it moves around its been a week now could I have a hernia? I've been constipated too? Or pregnancy had neg test,I have a painful belly button lump. Do I need to see a local doctor?
"I've had problems with constant headaches for 5 years, now they are more like migraines, I've see neurologists, eye specialists and no one has helped me?",Can you please explain the symptoms of migraine headache?
Late menstrual period after bad car wreck?,I am late for my period. Can I be pregnant?
Me & my fiancé are experiencing a red burning itchy scaling rash. Me on my butt & in the lining of the cheeks. Him on his inner thighs & stomach?,I have a red and scaly rash on my buttocks and in the lining of the cheeks. It is quite itchy and gives burning sensation. My fiance has a similar rash on his stomach and thighs. What can this be?
Mom's eye are red and she is rubbing her eyes. Any suggestions?,My mom's eyes are red making her to rub them. Can you help?
"My baby toe is burning red and swollen,  what can I do.  Thanks?",My baby's toe has turned red and swollen and is giving burning sensation. Please help.
My bf and I were fooling around with clothes on. And after I noticed ALot of precum on his jeans where my crotch was. Can this get me pregnant?,Can fooling around with my boyfriend with clothes on make me pregnant? I noticed precum on his jeans near my vaginal region.
My cousin is a 14 year old boy. He is 4inch in penile length. My question is ..... is he small for his age?,How can I increase my penis size?
My doctor says I've got macular edema. What does this mean?,How is macular edema treated?
"My first day of my last period was on 05/ i had intercourse on october 17 and october 22. My period is every 31 days. When should I conceived?",I got my last period on 05/10 and my cycle length is 31 days. When should I expect my next period?
"My nipples have been extremely sore since may 14 its june 26 & recently my lower right side has been killing me, but I started birth control on may 11?",How can I get rid of sore nipples as a side effect of BC?
My period is usually heavy and lasts five days. This month it came light and only lasted 3 days. I had intercourse 2 days after my last period.,I got light and short period this month which lasted only 5 days in contrast to heavy 5 days long period. Can having intercourse 2 days before starting with period be the cause?
"My son did have surgery on the peroneal nerve that caused his drop foot, doc said it would wake up after awhile, but it's been over a year no lat move?",How is foot drop treated?
"Period was 2 mo late, now been on for 3 wks so far. At the beginning of it all I was intensely stressed But not now. Should I be worried?",I am bleeding for the last 3 weeks now and I was 2 months late this time. I was stressed when it started but all fine now. Is this something concerning?
Should i be worried about the extreme vaginal air/gas that feels stuck I've been experiencing since my hymen surgery to fix my septate hymen 1 week ago,Got hymen surgery done for septate hymen a week ago and been experiencing something like gas/air stuck in vagina since then. Is it normal?
Should teens use the diet plans on tv?,Can you help me with a diet plan?
"Sign of pregnant in 1 month? Delayed menstrual cycle, is sign o pregnant?",Can a BC result in delayed menstrual cycle?
"Sore nipples remains during pregnancy, is this normal?",Does one get symptoms like sore nipples all through the pregnancy?
Taking lexapro 10 mg lamotrigine 200mg and seroquel 100mg and prenatale trying to get pregnant should I stop antidepressant know or after I get pregnant?,"Can I take lexapro 10 mg, lamotrigine 200mg and seroquel 100mg with prenatals?"
"This is my second month on mononessa, however this my second day taking my inactive pill, still haven't gotten my period is this normal?",I am on mononessa pills. Can I replace it with a generic brand?
Unfortunately I picked up a small scale on my face. Can this hurt my skin??,Do you know of any home remedies to get rid of scales on my face?
Unusual sore breasts each month after ovulation for 2 weeks after abortion of twins 9 months ago? ttc is everything ok? also get palpatations dizzines,How long it takes for ovulation to get back on track after an abortion?
Upper abdomen pain pulled muscle from working out? Any specific stretch to prevent it?,I think I got upper abdominal muscle pull after working out. What are some stretches to prevent it from happening again?
Up to how many weeks pregnant can you take an abortion pill?,Can you prescribe abortion pills?
Used Lodine or Celebrex (celecoxib) on and off for 3 or 4 years. Occasionally had some stomach burning. Haven't used in 3 months can it still cause an ulcer?,Can I take Lodine and Celebrex together?
We can experience health problem due to dental problem like gingivitis?,How does gingivitis affect our health?
What are the common symptoms of bruises?,Describe some common symptoms of bruises.
What are the negative effects of binge-drinking a couple times a month?,How can I stop binge drinking?
What are the prices of a new medication called roflumilast?,"Do you happen to know the cost of this new medication, roflumilast?"
What can you get over-the-counter for nerves?,What does over the counter mean?
What does a measles rash look like?,How can I differentiate a measles rash?
What does inflammation in legs mean?,How is legs inflammation treated?
What does t means a positive ANA test and ifa?,Can you explain meaning of positive ANA test and ifa?
What irritation does soap causes to private area?,How does soap irritate the vagina?
What is a subchondroplasty procedure and what is the out come?,Can you explain subchondroplasty procedure and its effects?
What is the best and fastest way to reduce breakthrough bleeding? Im going on my honeymoon in two days . Could I start a new pack ?,I am getting married and will be leaving for my honeymoon next week. How can I delay my breakthrough bleeding?
"What to do if I cut my gum on a piece of hard cereal and it was right next to wear my wisdom tooth is growing in, will than affect the tooth in any way?",I got gum injury from eating hard cereal. How can I stop the bleeding?
What to do if I have some symptoms thought that i don't know if they could be PMS or pregnancy ?,How can I differentiate between PMS and pregnancy symptoms?
What types of exercises are recommended for rehabilitating from chondromalacia patella?,Do you have any ideas about exercises that can enhance recovery from chondromalacia patella?
What types of medication are effective at reducing or eliminating PVCs?,Are there any medications that can help treat or prevent PVCs?
"When I have a soft stool I have to wipe perineum as there is feces there, not on vagina but the skin under. Always wipe front to back. Is this normal?",Is it normal to have stool on the skin under the vagina on wiping the perineum after passing stool. I clean it front to back.
When must I get a flu shot in preparation for moving to assisted living?,I am planning for moving to assisted living. When would be the best time to take the flu shot?
Why does 7 months premature baby is safer than 8 months premature baby?,Do we call both 7 and 8 months baby as premature?
"Will bodybuilding at sixteen and a half slow my height growth, im just 5'7ft?",I am sixteen and a half year old and 5 feet 7 inches. Can bodybuilding affect my height in future?
Will doctors help young couples get pregnant?,Can I get help from my doctor as I am young and trying for conception?
Woke up with both hands feeling number and tingling.  What is this?,How can I treat hands numbness and tingling?
"Would I be liable to get my medical card if I have ADHD , neurofibromatosis, asthma and anxiety?",Can you help me get medical card?
Wrist and knuckle got lightly burned from touching a pan. No blisters. Applying polysporin (bacitracin and polymyxin) 3-4 times or more daily. Should I be worried of overdose?,I got superficial burns on wrist and ankles from touching a hot pan. I have no blisters. Do you think applying polysporin (bacitracin and polymyxin) is considered over dosage?
"Yesterday had like 24hr bug with vomiting and bad diarrhea water like, today a rash has appeared very itchy looks like measles but it isn't, what is it?",I am passing watery stool and non stop vomiting. Shall I visit the ER?
"20yrs Female. Fever at night, goes away by morning.Saliva dries out quickly during day.Swollen tonsil, swelling is reducing. What to do?",I have been diagnosed with mono a couple of weeks back and continue to notice swollen tonsils. I do not have a fever and it does not hurt. How long does it take to reduce?
According to my ovulation 28 day cycle i was supposed to get my periods on 7may my last period was 9april and today is 10 may.... Could i be pregnant ?,I do not have a regular 28 day menstrual cycle and I think I'm pregnant. I haven't kept a track of the cycles and don't recollect my last period.
"After 6 months into my post-op, I have more gland leftover in one breast. Should I attribute this to swelling or bad gland tissue?",I recently had my follow up visit 8 months after I underwent breast surgery and now notice swelling of the arm. Is this related to the surgery?
Apple cider is helpful in weight reduction and how to use this for this purpose?,I have been taking garcinia cambogia for weight loss. Does it have any interactions with apple cider vinegar?
Are small red spots all over the body small pox?,I had small pox earlier. Can it recur?
Are there any at-home remedies for athlete's foot?,I have athlete's foot and wanted to know if there are any remedies I could try at home?
"Are these burning cramps normal during early pregnancy? I just found out I am pregnant (don't know how far along yet) and am experiencing some painful cramping. I keep trying to tell myself that it's just my uterus growing, but I wanted to ask on here to","I'm 6 weeks pregnant and have my first ultrasound schedule in a few days. I do notice some lower abdominal cramps, nausea and breast soreness. Is this normal or should I be worried?"
Arthritis in the knees. What could be the best way to get relief?,I have been diagnosed with arthritis in the knees. What can I do to get some relief?
"As a gymnast, my wrist hurts after over exertion. It's been about 3 weeks since working out & still pain in 1 spot. Should I use a brace or other ideas?",I'm a gymnast and my wrist started hurting after over exertion. Has been 3 weeks since working out and still notice the pain in one spot. Would using a brace be helpful or is there anything else i should try?
"Can chronic gastritis lead to other conditions such as gastroparesis, obstructions, stomach cancer, etc?",I'm a 20 yr old male diagnosed with H.pylori infection and on treatment for it. Is there a risk of stomach ulcer? My grandfather died of stomach cancer recently.
Can doctors tell me what does your heart rate need to get up to when you exercise?,How high does the heart rate go up to during exercise?
Can handling frozen foods cause frostbite?,Are there ways to prevent frostbites while handling frozen foods?
Can i get systematic effects from long term use of cortisone (hydrocortisone) 10 otc?,Are there any systemic side effects of using OTC hydrocortisone for a long time?
Can i take motrin for sharp stabbing pain in palm of hand?,"I have pain, numbness and tingling in the hand for a few weeks now. I also notice weakness sometimes. I have tried icing and ibuprofen but doesn't help. Does that sound like carpal tunnel?"
Can masturbating while on diflucan (fluconazole) get rid of it inside your body?,I have been prescribed on fluconazole for vaginal yeast infection. How long would it take to clear?
Can oral sex interfere with cervical cerclage surgery?,I had cervical cerclage at 14 weeks pregnancy and was asked to avoid sexual activity. What are my risks of preterm birth? Does having sex result in any complications?
Can quitting smoking cause long term digestive problems?,Are there any long terms effects of quitting smoking on the digestive system?
Can't get rid of my athletics feet. It's been bothering me for awhile now   ?,"I have athlete's foot and have tried various measures to get rid of it, with no luck. Is there anything you would suggest?"
Can vitamin-based skincare products help my SPF work better?,I heard that vitamin E oil is good for the skin. Does applying that equal to a sunscreen?
Can white noise be disruptive to my deep sleep?,Is deep sleep affected by continuous background noises?
Can white water rafting cause a miscarriage?,I'm currently trying to get pregnant and had miscarriages in the past. I'm physically active and play sports. What are the precautions I should take?
Clicking sound comes and goes when heart beats. Upper left chest sharp pain and the pain goes through ribs to upper back left side. I'm 20 years old?,I have been having panic attacks for a few months now and have chest pain along with breathing difficulty and palpitations. How do I know this is not heart related?
"Could he be suffering from ptsd? My husband was sexually molested as a young child, once by an older man and then by teenagers. At the time, he was also being physically abused at home, so he had no one to turn to for help. He recently began dealing with","My husband was sexually molested during childhood, by an older man and then by teenagers and was also being physically abused at home, at the time but did not have anyone to turn for help. Is there a possibility that he could be suffering from PTSD?"
"Doctors, do you think I can develop keloid scarring on old healed tattoos?",Can a keloid scar develop over old healed tattoos?
Does  a meniscal displacement cause pain along the joint line? What are some of the symptoms of having a displacement?,I had an injury to the knee and I may have torn the meniscus. It has been hurting while walking and wanted to know some symptoms of meniscus injury?
Does anyone know how to get rid of acid indigestion easily?,I have acid reflux and has been treated for it but I do seem to have a cough now. I'm a known smoker as well. Should I be worried?
Does operating small aircraft all of the time lead to permanent hearing loss?,Can permanent hearing loss occur from operating small aircraft all the time?
Does the pus of gonorrhea smell?,I think I may have gonorrhea. Is the discharge with gonorrhea foul smelling?
Do small children eventually outgrow anal skin tags?,Do anal skin tags usually outgrow as one ages?
"Dry, flaky skin on the outer skin of lips all the time. Why does this happen?","I have dry, chapped lips with a cold sore. How long does it take to heal?"
Everytime i eat pork i brake out why? Am allergic to it because my oldest daughter brakes out as well.,I have allergy to seafood and noticed a rash and swelling of my lips after I ate a small portion of shrimp. I have some breathing difficulty. Should I go to the ER?
Extreme pain in one leg like cramp. What to do next time?,I have been noticing visible veins on the legs for a few months now and have been having leg cramps during evenings and night. What can I do to help while I wait for my appointment?
Eyebrows.  Are  thinning?,I have hair loss and thinning of hair for the last 6 months. What can I do to stop it?
"Female lower right quadrant abdominal pain, should I be concerned?",I know that appendicitis can cause pain on the right lower abdomen but underwent appendectomy last year. I also have ovarian cyst on that side and I'm currently on my period. What do you think is causing the pain?
"From what i know about gen. Anesthesia, you get a shot, they put a mask over you and you wake up. But is there any weird activity when you wake up like laughing gas?",I had a surgery 3 days back under general anesthesia and now have a headache. Is this common or should I call my doctor?
Got depo on 3rd day of period. Had unprotected sex w/ husband 1 week and a day later after depo shot. Am I protected against pregnancy?,How soon does depo start working to prevent pregnancy? I got a shot on the 2nd of my period and had sex 5 days later.
Had larpcoli for gallbladder last Tuesday. Came out relatively fine but recently relapsed into severe nausea and vomiting along with high blood pressure.,"I recently underwent Lap cholecystectomy (gallbladder removal) and recovered well. I recently started noticing severe nausea, vomiting along with high blood pressure. What does it mean?"
"Had unpro sex the last day iovulated 30th he cummed 2x in me , my per was due 13 but igot it on the 14 howcome ididnt get pregnant ?:/iwant a baby",I have been trying to conceive with my partner and he had ejaculated inside me twice. Last day of ovulation was 30th and period was due on 13th but came the next day. Why didn't I get pregnant in spite of having unprotected sex during ovulation?
"Having frequent headaches this month, how can I relieve the pain?",I developed a headache after hitting my head accidentally while getting up at work. It has been a month. What could be wrong?
"Hi, I'm 21 and I have white bumps all over my body I want to know if its keratosis pilaris? And what can I do to get rid of it? My sibling has it to",I'm 21 yrs old and noticed white bumps all over the body. My sibling has it as well. Does that sound like keratosis pilaris? Is there anything I can do to treat it?
Hi This will be my 4th ceceran. I'm 3wks and 6 days. This morning when I urinated there was a small amount of blood on the tissue. No blood today.,I'm about 4 weeks postpartum and noticed some blood in urine on wiping this morning. No bleeding today and this would be my 4th C-section now. Should I be worried?
How can I get rid of red and black warts on the skin and acne spots on the back?,I have acne spots on the face and seem like red and black warts. Can warts occur on face as well?
How can I get rid of this awful toothache?,I had toothache and underwent tooth extraction but still continue to notice the pain. I'm on antibiotics and pain medications. Should I go back to the dentist?
How do doctors stop preterm labor?,I have a cervical stitch due to a short cervix and was wondering if I would end up with a preterm labor?
How do I cope with the uncertainty about huntington's disease with myself and my children?,"I have been noticing loss of memory, difficulty thinking, confusion, difficulty coordinating, lack of focus and some compulsive behavior. Can this be from Hungtinton's disease?"
How early can you get an abortion?,How early can an abortion occur?
How good is an ultrasound in detecting ivh in my child?,Is ultrasound scan an accurate test to diagnose IVH in my child?
How is a labral tear in the shoulder with subluxation repaired?,How long does it take to recover from surgery for rotator cuff injury with labral tear? Will I be able to lift weights?
How much time do you have to have sex for to get pregnant?,How long should one have sex to get pregnant?
How to manage back pain chronic back pain?,Are there any ways or remedies you would suggest to help with chronic back pain?
"I eat alot now I just got love handles, how much are implants for butts?","I have been eating a lot and gained weight, developed love handles. I have been thinking about getting butt implants. What are some side effects?"
"If dr orders a CT scan of abd/pelvic w/contrast an without, i can see it being done with contrast but what's the purpose of having it also without?",I recently got a CAT scan of the abdomen and pelvis with contrast done which came back normal but the symptoms have been the same. What is the purpose of the scan?
I fell on my back at work and I'm having extreme pain in my left shoulder blade. I can't move it at all without bursting into tears. What should I do?,I was working out in the gym and lifted some weights today and started noticing severe upper back pain and around shoulder blade. I have severe pain while trying to move my arm. What can I do to help with the pain?
If I didn't show any signs of Me being pregnant the first time around would I have any signs this time?,"I had unprotected sex 10 days back and I'm expecting my period soon. I feel nauseous, tired, constipated and breasts hurt. Does that sound like signs of pregnancy?"
"If one of my testicles atrophied from infection a decent amount, is it possible that the leydig cells are still left in it and only the sertoli died?",Can leydig and sertoli cell tumors result from infections of the testicle?
I had a root canal and got a temp filling. Filling is falling out in chunks and my appointment for permanent filling is in a week will it be ok?,I had severe toothache started today morning and  now notice swelling on that side of cheek and fever. I have an appointment with the dentist for a root canal  which is not until next week.What can I do for the toothache?
"I had arrhythmia, is it something that will leave over a period of time?",My apple watch shows that I have an irregular heart beat and I'm worried about an arrythmia. I do have palpitations on and off. Should I get an EKG?
I had a sinus infection 3 weeks ago and i was prescribed z-pack.Felt better for a few days but I am congested again. Should i refill my z-pac?,"I had a sinus infection about a month back, felt better for a few days after receiving Z-pac and now feel congested again. What can I do now?"
"I had sex with my boyfriend 2 weeks back, we used protection. The last time I had sex before that was 7 months ago. I am late by 6 days. Should I worry?",I had unprotected sex during my fertile window 2 weeks back and have been trying to conceive for 8 months now. My period is now delayed for 5 days. When should I take a test?
I have a black dot that looks like a mole on the inside of my outer vagina lips. I've noticed a while ago but now all of a sudden it's raised?,I have raised bumps on the inner vaginal lips that seem to be painful. What could it be?
"I have a ingrown toenail for about 2 years now and I want to get surgery but in 5 months, is it bad to wait 5 months to get surgery.?",I had ingrown toenail for 2 yrs and underwent surgery for it 5 months back but the symptoms seem to be recurring. Would I require another surgery?
I have a scab just inside my left nostril that hasn't healed in over a month. I pick off fluffy part but base more difficult n painful. Neosporin ok?,I noticed a non-healing scab inside the left nostril for over a month now with easy to pull off fluffy part but base has been painful. Is it ok to use Neosporin?
"I have external small hard darkish lump on my sternum, dead centre, 1 inch above nipple level. Not painful. Should I be concerned?","I have a painless small hard bump on the sternum that seems to be a little dark and is about 2 cm in size, above the nipple level. Is this something to be worried about?"
"I haven't had my period for seven months now and im not pregnant, I have occasional abdomen slight discomfort but nothing significant, what's wrong??",My period has been absent for 7 months now and pregnancy has been excluded. I notice occasional abdominal discomfort but is not significant. What could be wrong?
"I have osteoarthritis, naproxen 1/2 (500mg) twice a day 4 joint pain, pain getting stronger have an appt. on 2/12/16 with rheumatologist ¿what to do?",I have been diagnosed with osteoarthritis and have an upcoming appointment with the rheumatologist. I have been taking naproxen 1/2 ( 500mg) twice a day for the joint pain but the pain has been getting stronger. Is there anything else I can do to help with the pain?
I have really bad dandruff and ketoconazole shampoo did not work. What do I do?,I have been diagnosed with athlete's foot and was given ketoconazole cream. How long should I use it?
I'm about 17 weeks pregnant and get cramps already; is that a scary thing?,I'm 17 weeks pregnant and was wondering if it is bad to notice cramps already?
"Im an 18  year old female and lately i think I have been showing signs of bi-polar disorder, what should I do?",I'm currently on medications for bipolar disorder but I don't think I have it. I have depressed mood most of the times and excessive crying for no reason. Is it possible I'm just going through depression?
Im a young & i get acne still I have tried meds & creams from a dr. But nothing is working i really don't want to damage my face any ideas what to try?,"I'm young and have been experiencing acne for a long time now. I have tried various medications and creams prescribed by doctors but nothing worked and wanted to know if there are any ideas on what to try, without causing damage to my face?"
"I'm experiencing stomach pains, vomiting immediately after eating food and frequenting the washrooms for long calls is it in any way amoeba infection ?","I have been noticing stomach ache, vomiting after eating food and frequent washroom breaks. Does that sound like amoeba infection?"
I'm feeling tightness on the left lower side of my stomach and when I lay on my side it takes my breath away? What's wrong with me?,I have been under a lot of stress lately and noticed chest tightness and breathing difficulty sometimes. Does that sound like a panic attack?
I nearly have 3 days of incomplete rest. How can I stay in condition?,I sprained my ankle 2 days back and was not able to get enough rest. My pain level is at 7. Can this delay the recovery?
I never had any pain before/during my period. The other day I started having pain in the pelvic area. At night it's so excruciating I can barely move.,I noticed severe pain in the pelvic area at night and could barely move. I'm currently on my period and have never experienced pain before/ during period. What could it be?
In the past year I have experienced sharp pains in my left breast. I have had an exam and even and mammogram and everything is ok.,"I have noticed sharp pain in the left breast over the past year and had a breast exam and mammogram, all of which came back ok. What could be causing the pain?"
"I reached over a counter and something popped on my left side above rib cage. It gets sore if I pull on something, etc What is this injury?","I have been noticing rib pain on the left side, above the rib cage and no possible injuries. What else could be causing this?"
Is it ok to have Valium when taking sinemet (carbidopa and levodopa) 100/25 & rapid. My sister has dystonia and is in hospital and docs there never heard of dystonia.,"I have been prescribed on valium for alcohol withdrawals and have been feeling restless, dizzy, light headed and drowsy. I'm unable to sleep well and feel agitated. Is this normal?"
Is it possible for my hubby to know whether I am a virgin or not?,I recently lost virginity and still notice the hymen hanging from the vaginal opening and it hurts. I tried to pull it out but seems to hurt. What do you suggest I do?
Is it safe to use silicone gel sheet on acne scar on the face?,I have been using silicone gel sheets for my acne but heard they are not very safe. What would you recommend I do? Are there any creams I can use?
Is odomos safe during pregnancy?,I'm 25 weeks pregnant and wanted to know if it is safe to eat pineapple during pregnancy?
Is sex good for a relationship?,I have been having decreased sex drive and I think it has been affecting my relationship with my partner. Any suggestions?
Is taking 5mg of prednisone daily for a year considered fairly safe?,I'm currently 5 weeks pregnant and have asthma. Is it safe to take prednisone?
Is there any cure for restless legs?,I have iron deficiency anemia and was told that could be causing restless leg syndrome. Is that true?
I talk in my sleep with my eyes open but have no memory of the conversations.,I have been having issues with my memory recently and feels more like temporary memory loss. Do I need to see a doctor?
"I've got a stabbing pain in my groin in scrotum, what would cause this?",I have sharp pain in my groin since yesterday which started after playing soccer. Can this be a pulled muscle or something serious? I was also recently treated for an STI.
"I've had body aches, blocked stuffy nose, headaches, pressure in my face and throat tightness and it feels dry for 6 months is it a bad cold?","For the last 6 months, I've noticed symptoms like body aches, stuffy nose, headaches, pressure sensation in the face, throat tightness and feels dry. Can a cold last this long or should I be looking for something else?"
I've noticed that after eating my resting heart rate goes from the 60s close to the 80s. Is this normal after eating?,My resting heart rate has been low and eating does not seem to change the heart rate. I have been tracking my heart rate and has got me worried.
"I very often have dull pain in the lower left abdomen. Although bearable, should I still be concerned due to its frequent occurrence and see a doctor?",I have lower abdominal pain for some time now. I was diagnosed with a UTI but did not receive treatment. Could it be returning?
"I was fingered by a guy for first time, he was touching his penis which was wet with precum and then he fingered my vagina.Can i get HIV through this?",Is there a possibility of acquiring HIV through fingering? I was wondering because I was fingered by a guy for the first time after he was touching his penis which had precum.
My 24 year old daughter thinks she may be developing schizophrenia. A couple months ago she started feeling tired all the time and stopped socializing?,My 24 yr old daughter started feeling tired all the time and stopped socializing about 2 months back and thinks she may be developing schizophrenia. What could be causing this?
"My 2 yr old has red bumps with white middle spots on his stomach, chest, and thighs. They don't bother him but have been there for 1 wk. What r they?",Does hand foot and mouth disease present with rash on chest? My son has fever with blisters for 4 days now.
My blood report from Sunday Evening i.e. 14th june (23rd day) of 34 days cycle shows I ovulated and its 35 unit. So when did I ovulated?,I got my hormones levels checked on 21st day of my 28 day cycle as suggested by my doctor and it showed good levels. Does that confirm ovulation has occurred on that day?
My daughter was diagnosed w a murmur@her4month appt. We went to the hospital to do xrays and an ekg. Later told to dallas cardiologist what could b wrong!,My 4 month old daughter has been diagnosed with a murmur during her recent appointment. Tests like x-rays and an EKG were done and later referred to a cardiologist in Dallas. Any idea what could be wrong?
My entire left side of my body has a sharp pain going through my whole left side of my body. I have a sharp pain in my neck and around my heart what s?,"I had my wisdom tooth removed today and have been noticing headache, neck and ear pain on that side. Is this normal?"
"My heart-rate while in bed is 58-60bpm, when changing positions, it increases then goes back to 60, is this a normal reaction?",My heart rate has been fluctuating and varies between 58-60 and changing positions does not seem to alter it and is the same while in bed. What causes low heart rate?
My mom also had a cancerous lump removed from her breast a few years ago. Could it be the same thing now?,Can lump in breast recur? My mother underwent a surgery few years back for removal of a cancerous lump from the breast.
My mother is having burning sensation in her left hand she is a diabetic patient and having asthma problem please help me what does it mean?,My 58 yr old mother has diabetes and experiencing burning and numbness in the hands and feet. Her sugars have been high the last time she checked and was given medication for neuropathy. She is also an asthmatic. When can she expect to notice improvement?
My scalp is very itchy and im loosing a lot of hair each day. My skin is oily type. Gp prescribed me diprosalic for scalp application. What can cause it?,"I have an itchy and oily scalp with red bumps all over my scalp. I recently used a new medicated shampoo, which has not been prescribed to me. Does this sound like an allergic reaction?"
My wife continues pain in her lower left side. She went to Dr a he could not find any problem. However pain is still a problem all day. Anything?,My partner has been diagnosed with an ovarian cyst and has pain on the lower left side of abdomen  and now the pain seems to be worsening. Could it be a rupture?
Nev er miss a period in life until I start date man outside my race. I had feb march apr no period  got light for only 2 day may no period since ?,I missed my period for 3 months after I lost my virginity and has never happened earlier. I did take plan b thrice last month. Can that affect my period?
Orthostatic hypotension. I put table salt in a pint of water a few times a day and drink it. Can i overdose and die from the salt? Male 22.,I'm 22 yrs old and I think i may have orthostatic hypotension. I was wondering if my antidepressant could be causing this? I have been taking a dose higher than that given by my doctor. Could that result in overdose?
Pain in mid right of stomach?,My sister has pain in the middle of upper abdomen and has been feeling full early. She was given omeprazole for acid reflux. Should that fix it?
Please help doc asap ...I have trouble allergies and my eyes feel like its rock in them for 2 days nows very very painful what can I do ? I took benado,"I have seasonal allergies and now have itchy eyes, headache with heaviness sensation for 4 days now. Headaches and eye pain have been bad. Should I talk to my doctor?"
"Rash all over body starts on head itchy but bearable, then spreads all over body rapidly first looks like nettle sting but then turns extremely red ?",I have an itchy rash all over the face and chest after I ate shellfish. I do have some allergies but  never experienced this before. Will this spread all over my body? What can I do?
Scalp psoriasis.What is treatment?,I have been diagnosed with scalp psoriasis. What are the treatment options available?
Self-waxing pubic hair - is it hard to do?,I have PCOS for a few years now and have excess facial hair. Waxed my facial hair yesterday but it seems to be painful. What are other alternatives?
Sharp inconsistent  pains on  the right side near the ovaries and lower back. Pain came out of nowhere and started today its been 4 hours. Help?,"I have been noticing pain in the right lower abdomen and lower back for about 4 hrs now, that has been sharp and inconsistent. What can I do to help relieve it?"
"Should I see a doctor about possibly anxiety/depression issues? I haven't been feeling like myself lately. I've taken several online depression/anxiety inventories and they've all come back that I have moderate/severe qualities of depression, however I do",I do not feel myself lately and have researched a lot online and all of them come back saying I have moderate/ severe qualities of depression. Would a doctor's visit be helpful to confirm anxiety/ depression?
Should I take my Cymbalta (duloxetine) 30mg in a.m. or p.m.? I take it for diabetic neuropathy.  My Neuropathy is worse in the evening and night. Thank you.,I have diabetic neuropathy that seems to be worse at evening and night. Wanted to know if I should take the 30 mg Cymbalta (Duloxetine)  in the night or morning?
So the bf is disgusted by my stretch marks. What can I do to get rid of them?,I have stretch marks and my partner does not seem to be happy. What would you suggest I do to get rid of them?
"Sudden chest pain shortness of breath, resting hr at 100 is this pulmonary embolism i'm a 30/m. I have a family history. If i go to ER will they run CT scan for this?","I'm a 40 yr old male, smoker for 10 yrs. Developed sudden swelling in the leg with severe pain and is red. My chest seems to hurt and I feel shortness of breath. Does that sound like pulmonary embolism? Should I visit the ER?"
Sunscreen lotion for african americans with very extremely sensitive skin?,Are african americans protected from skin cancer due to their skin color? I was wondering because I never used a sunscreen so far. Am I at risk?
The 2nd person closest to me had a cold sore and passed it to  the person next to me who hit it and passed it to me (glass pipe) am i at risk?,I have a cold sore and wanted to know if having oral sex with my partner or kissing my partner would spread it?
"There is a psychiatric night time tablet for schizophrenia that starts with 'c', does it cause drowsiness?",I have an appointment with my psychiatrist in the coming week but wanted to know if I could take my allergy medicines at night along with my antipsychotic medicine Seroquel? Do they have any interactions?
Unexplained numbness and sharp stabbing pain in the left side of my body. Suggestions?,"I have neck pain, numbness and sharp shooting pain in the left arm.  What could it be from?"
"Very large bruise at old scar about 29 yrs ago i had my appendix removed. Now i was changing shirts to day and i saw a very large bruise around the scar in about a 6 or 8"" circle. It looks like a big explosion of blood in the circle.",I'm 29 yrs old healthy male and noticed a large bruise around the area where my appendix is and was wondering if it means anything? I did not sustain any injuries and it does not hurt.
What are some really good ways to stimulate adrenaline?,Are there any good ways to stimulate adrenaline?
What are the complications of ANLL?,Could you explain about complications of ANLL?
What are the side effects of stelazine (trifluoperazine)?,I have been prescribed onstelazine (trifluoperazine). Does the medication have any side effects?
What can I do for intestinal blockage?,I have severe constipation for the last month and now unable to pass gas. Can it be intestinal obstruction? Should i visit the ER?
What can I do to sleep better?,Are there any tips to get a good sleep?
What causes a problem with lower back (right side) down the leg to near ankle?,I have a problem with lower right side of the leg near the ankle. What could cause a problem like that?
What could cause sensitive gums two months after a root canal?,Can having poor dental hygiene and tooth decay result in sensitive teeth and gum disease?
What does it mean to have sporadic headaches?,I have been experiencing sporadic headaches. What does that indicate?
What does spinning around do to the brain to cause you to vomit?,"I have been noticing ringing in the ears, spinning sensation of the head, vomiting and headache. Does it mean something is wrong with my brain?"
"What is ayurvedic, or homeopathic medicine for chronic rhinitis?",Are there any alternative medicine treatments like ayurvedic or homeopathic that you would suggest for chronic rhinitis?
What is gastrointestinal influenza? Is it contagious?,"I have diarrhea with blood in stools, vomiting, nausea, fever and abdominal pain for 10 days now. Does that sound like stomach bug?"
What is the most effective skin bleach/lightening cream?,Is there any good bleach/ lightening cream that you would suggest for effective results?
What is the retinal pigment epithelium?,Can you explain what is the retinal pigment epithelium?
What kinds of epilepsy are there?,I have been diagnosed with epilepsy. What are the treatments available?
What method is there to get rid of this cough and wheezing?,I have been experiencing cough and wheezing. What are some ways I can try to get rid of this?
What should we do if my husband vomited blood? He has been having stomach aches this past week and vomited blood for the first time tonight.,My husband has been experiencing stomaches for the last week and vomited blood for the first time tonight. Should I take him to the ER?
What to do if I'm 58 years old man. before 25 days I was found with widal positive but after 25 days widal test is negative..?,I'm a 58 yr old man and was found to have a WIDAL test positive about 25 days ago and now after 25 days it is negative. What can I do?
What ways/exercises are most effective for getting rid of thigh fat?,Are there any exercises that are most effective for getting rid of fat in the thigh?
When after a sinus infection clears up will brain fog go away?,How long does it take for brain fog to clear after receiving treatment for sinus infection?
When do you apply sunscreen: before or after skin care?,I developed a mild sunburn 2 days back and was wondering if I could apply sunscreen over it? When can i go back into the sun?
"When I use the bathroom, my poop are sometimes the size of meat balls or bigger. And it's hard to push I eat fruits vegetables. When using I bleed why?","I have been noticing blood in stools for some time now, with hard stools and need to strain while passing stools. My diet seems to be healthy and I do eat fruits and vegetables. What can I do to help with this?"
Why am i so forgetful all the time i forget where i'm going what i'm doing an saying?,I have been diagnosed with clinical depression and notice that I have been having forgetfulness and trouble with memory. What can I do for it?
Why does my back hurt when I breathe or bend over? Its kind of in my upper middle back but just on the right side.,I started noticing pain in the upper middle back on the right side and hurts to breathe and bend over. Any idea what it could be?
Why do I have chronic ankle ligament pain for no reason?,I have been experiencing ankle pain for a long time now and started out of nowhere. I have not sustained any injuries. Does that sound like a ligament pain?
Will anyone tell me how come I have small pimple like bumps n my nipple and the surrounding part?,"I'm currently pregnant and notice that my nipple has grown big, is more dark and has raised bumps around. Is this normal?"
A BNP value less than 10 pg/ML can rule out CHF or some serious heart problem? Thanks,"My BNP value is less than 10pg/ML, does it rules out CHF or serious heart problem? "
Are all lymph node removal surgeries cancerous in nature? Can you share some sources?,Does all cancer clearing surgery remove lymph nodes? Can you enlighten me with some relevant sources?
Can ciprofloxacin and amoxicillin be taken together?,"I am having sore throat, can I take amoxicillin and ciprofloxacin together? "
Can I take Cymbalta (duloxetine) with gabapentin?,"May I know, for which conditions Cymbalta (Duloxetine) and Gabapentin is prescribed? "
Can stem cell research help diseased arteries?,"I have diseased arteries, can stem cell research help me?"
Can sun urticaria cause anaphylaxis?,Is it possible for the sun urticaria to cause anaphylaxis?
Can u take Prilosec OTC with fluoxetine?,"Currently I am on fluoxetine for anxiety and Prilosec for gastric issues, could you suggest me, what can I have for sore throat? "
Can you explain if it's possible to have a lot of the symptoms of type 2 diabetes and not have it?,Could you apprise me of any condition with similar symptoms to diabetes mellitus type 2?
Can you take tylenol (acetaminophen) and Advil together? Can you take tylenol (acetaminophen) and Advil together?,"I am having severe pain, can I take Advil and Tylenol (acetaminophen) together?"
Can you tell me how i can take prohormones the right way?,Could you apprise me about the benefits of prohormones?
Can you tell me if i could get the stomach flu twice?,"I got stomach flu twice, what can I do to prevent it from happening again? "
"Chest keeps popping i don't know why  went to the doctor and they said , y chest was inflamed is the anything that can make the inflammation go away?",My chest keeps popping up at times. Is it chest inflammation? Should I go to the doctor?
Chest pain cough that's last couple weeks. Now have blood shot eyes that are irritated cheek lil swollen also nauseous head ache fatigue what is it?,"I am having blood shot eyes that are irritated and swollen, also having headache and feeling nauseous. I have history of chest pain with cough from last couple of weeks. Could you tell me, what's going on? "
Clomiphene citrate 100mg from   3rd day for 5 days any possibility for twins and conceiving? Please answer,Hi! I am on Clomiphene citrate 100mg on a 5 days regimen and this is my 3rd day. Any chances of conceiving or twin pregnancy?
Cortisone shot as a diagnostic tool in the knee what does this mean. If the shot worked does it mean inflammation? If not internal damage. Help,Apart from diagnostic tool to differentiate between inflammation and internal injury. Is there any therapeutic benefits of cortisone shot in the knee?
Could you tell me what happens when you quit smoking?,"May I know, what are the withdrawal symptoms, when we quit smoking? "
Does a thyroid level in the TSH 4.1 to 5.2 range indicate hypothyroidism? Is very dry skin and increase in acne also a symptom?,I have a very dry skin and increase in acne. Is it relate to hypothyroidism? My TSH value is between 4.1 to 5.2.
Does endocervical component mean endometriosis?,"I am a known case of endometriosis, my Pap test revealed endocervical component. Do I have HPV? "
Does zyrtec (cetirizine) helps for swollen lips?,"Apart from zyrtec( cetirizine), what other medications can I have for swollen lips? "
"For a week had pain under left breast, worst when rolling to that side in bed or getting up from laying down. most of the time I cannot deep breath?",I am having difficulty in breathing along with pain under the left breast which escalates on moving. What it could be?
From last 4 days I get burning feeling in my throat. I am doing gargle but no improvement. Pls help?,Can gargles prevent burning sensation of throat?
Has anyone else had nasty side effects from taking alendronate/fosamax for osteoporosis?,I have been prescribed alendronate/fosamax for osteoporosis. Does these medication gives you side effects? Has anyone from your practice has reported about them?
Hey! If I stay in the shower a long time my nose starts dripping and running like crazy. I also can begin sneezing time after time. Any idea? Thanks!!,"Could you help me? I start having dripping nose if I stand in a shower for long time, I also have sneezing time after time. Do you have any idea? "
"Hi doctor I tested hsv2 IgG 2.16 Elisa after 70 days of my protected encounter only vaginal. I discuss two doctor n they say Ur fine Pls clear, no symp?"," Hello doctor. I was worried about having STD, so got hsv2 IgG Elisa done 70 days after the protected intercourse, my levels are 2.16. Am I safe? Two doctor's whom I have consulted, mentioned that I am fine. "
High myopia category involves the astigmatism also?,"Could you tell me, whether astigmatism also includes high myopia category? "
Hi! I have a 7 years old daughter i noticed that she's having a deep breathing in every minute. What is wrong with her?,"I am worried about my 7 year old daughter, who is deep breathing after every 1 minute. Is it serious? "
Hi  I have epilepsy and have 30 seizures a day i'm on epilim 2000mg  a day is it possible to go on a higher dose?,"I have been diagnosed with epilepsy and being prescribed epilim 2000mg a day, I am still having 30 seizures per day,is it possible that my dose could be increased further higher?"
"Hi I just got over the stomach flu and have been experiencing chest, throat and jaw pain. I was wondering what it could be? I don't want to worry, but","Can one have jaw, stomach and chest pain after getting over with stomach flu? I am wondering, should I be worried? "
How are metabolic rate and free radical production related to human lifespan? What are some medically proven ways to control the metabolic rate and free radical production?,Are metabolic rate and free radical production related to human life span? How we can control them? Are there any medical proven ways for that?
How can warfarin alternatives work?,"Could you apprise me, how does warfarin alternatives work?"
How is substance abuse diagnosed?,"Could you tell me, how substance abuse is diagnosed? "
How long does a wrenched ligament in the knee take to heal?,"I have a wrenched ligament in the knee, how long would it take to heal up? "
"How long does it normally take a man to ejaculate, and at what point is ejaculation considered premature?",I usually take 2-3 minutes for ejaculation. Do you think it's premature? What's the normal duration for ejaculation to occur?
How long does it take for my vitamin d levels to get back to normal (about 70-80)? mine is 29 and I am taking 2000 ius/day and trying to get sun in FL,"Could you please advise me? Last year my vitamin D levels were 2 I was on vitamin D supplement 2000 ius/day and was taking good amount of sunlight. 3 months back, I checked my levels, which were well within normal range of 70-80. I am again having symptoms of fatigue. Should I get my levels checked again?"
How long does it take to heal from a tubal ligation reversal?,"I just healed up from tubal ligation, I am thinking of going for reversal. Is it possible? "
How long is it normal for a jammed joint in your foot take to heel?,"Could you tell me, how long does a jammed joint in your foot  takes to heal up? "
How long should u wait on an ssri (fluvoxamine) if you don't see any improvement? How much time will u give it to be sure there will be no improvement?,I have been dealing with anxiety from quite some time. My doctor has prescribed me ssri (fluvoxamine) which is really helping me and I am showing improvement. Could you suggest any home remedies that could accelerate my recovery?
How long would you need to take off if you have a mental breakdown due to work?,"I just had a mental breakdown and don't want to go to work as it's causing it, how long would I need to take off? "
How many hours do you have to walk to see weight loss? How long will it take before i see noticeable weight loss?,"I am striving for weight loss. Could you tell me how many hours should I walk, before I see the noticeable change? "
How much should I take the biotin 500mg?,"I have been advised biotin 500mg, how much should I take? "
How much taller will a girl grow after she starts her period?,"I have just started with my periods, how tall can I grow now? "
Husband takes prograf and may have cancer; will cancers spread quickly on prograf?,Can prograf increase the chances of cancer spread? My husband takes prograf?
I am about 15 weeks of pregnant and I have difficulty to sleep what can I take for helping me sleep. Thank you?,I am having difficulty in sleeping these days. Even medications are not helping. What could be the reason? I am 15 weeks pregnant. Could it be related?
"I am a girl, my cum is a little foamy and thick. stringy too. I have no symptoms, but is this normal?","I think, I have vaginal yeast infection as my cum is little foamy, thick and stringy. Should I see the doctor? "
I am currently taking levothyroxine. 125 mg for hypothyroidism and trying to get back into bodybuilding. Is it safe to take a bcaa supplement?,I am suffering from hypothyroidism and currently taking .125 mg levothyroxine daily. Can I take BCAA supplement along? It's very essential for bodybuilding.
"I am feeling pain all over my stomach, what should I do?",Could you suggest me some remedies for pain all over my stomach?
I am having a hard time finding info. On the success of a 3 level lumbar fusion with an internal stimulator. Previous fusion no growth. Please help?!?,Could you explain me the meaning of success of a 3 level lumbar fusion with internal stimulator. Previous fusion no growth?
I am having surgery on my inner right ankle for a 1.4cm mass thats between bone and nerve the nerve might be connected. How big will the incision be. ?,"I have a 1.4 cm mass on my inner right ankle between the bone and nerve. I have a planned surgery, could you apprise how big the incision will be too excise that mass?  "
I can feel small lymph node in my neck the doctor said its 9m is this normal.I am a little worry.But the rest of the lymph node i can't feel them.,"I can feel  a 9mm lymph node on my neck, the doctor have also confirmed the size. Is it normal? "
"I feel like depression and anxiety are ruining my life, need some advice?","I need some advice, on how to manage anxiety and depression? They have been ruining my life. "
If I am feeling suicidal what should I do?,"I have suicidal ideation, what should I do? Should I see the doctor? "
If pus in stool is occasionally is there any problem?,"I am having pus in my stools occasionally, should I be worried? Is it a problem? "
"If you take birth control regularly, miss one does on the only night you've had sex in 1 year (no sex after), then continue to take regularly thereafter, how is it possible to get pregnant with twins?",I have been taking birth control pills regularly and have missed one pill during the intercourse night and have been taking them regularly after that. What are my chances of getting pregnant with twins?
I got bit by an insect on my calf muscle. Its been bruised for almost a month now. Its not itchy but it is swelling & pain when I bend my knee?,"I have swelling and pain on my calf region in bending the knee. I got bit by insect on my calf a month ago, the bruising has subside now. Should I see the doctor? "
"I have abdominal pain that wakes me up daily, nauseous all the time, can't finish full meals, dizzy when I stand. Has been happening for 2-3 weeks?","From past 2-3 weeks, I have been having abdominal pain that are waking me up along with nausea, dizziness on standing and inability to finish my meals. What it could be? "
"I have had paragard 14 months, 12 days late should I wait to see if I mss my next cycle?",Can IUDs like Pargard  delay your periods?
"I have tenderness/swelling in front of my right ear, most noticeable when mouth is open, feels like it could be top of jaw. Sharp pain in ear area too?","I have perceptible tenderness and swelling in front of my ear, mostly on opening of the jaw along with ear pain. What could cause it? "
I just need to know if a low does antidepressant with Vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine) helps to not get the depression when you go off the Vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine) for weekends?,"I am planning to skip Vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine) during the weekends, does adding any low dose antidepressants with Vyvanse, helps to counter any depression? "
I'm 16 weeks pregnant and the skin on left side of my stomach and back is sensitive and extremely painful when touched. But I have no rash. Why?,"I am having sensitive and painful left side of stomach and back, the area is very tender to touch, want to add that I am 16 week pregnant. Can you help? "
I'm in high school.I need to get to bet by 8:00 pm to get 9hours of sleep.I find myself stating up until 11 pm. What can I do to get to bed on time ?,"Being a high school student, I need 9 hours of sleep, but I am usually up till 11PM, though I should sleep by 8PM. What should I do? "
I'm not sure but is huntington's disease a congenital disease?,"Apart from huntington disease,  what other diseases are known as congenital ones? "
Interested in yoga but don't know which one to do to help me relax. What should I do?,I am interested in yoga but not aware which one should I do for relaxation. Could you help me?
I often feel these odd shudders in my stomache. My stomach kind of shakes. It freaks me out. What could it be?,I have been experiencing stomach shaking and shudders from quite some time. I am freaking out. What is causing this?
"I pricked myself on a knockout rose bush last friday. The swelling has gone down some, but it still hurts/itches in two spots. Is it infected?","I had pricked myself on a knock out rose bush at two spots, the swelling has gone down but it  stills hurts and itches. I know, it's not infected but what should I do? "
Is going from 40 mg Nexium to 20 mg Nexium and then 10 mg Nexium granules a good way of weaning of?Sudden stopping I hear can result in sever rebound.,"I have severe gastritis, my doctor increased my Nexium dose first from 10mg granules to 20mg Nexium and then to 40 mg Nexium. I am still having heartburn, how long would it take to cast its full effects? Any home remedies? "
Is it okay for 18 year olds to take thermogenics?, I have heard a lot of 18 year old taking thermogenics. Could you tell me what we mean by thermogenics?
Is it okay for momma to breastfed while taking prednisone?,"Apart from prednisone, what other medications are contradicted while being on breastfeeding? "
Is it possible to be able to stop the ssri you're taking one day and having been recovered totally from OCD so no need for meds again?,"Can SSRI completely treat the OCD, so that you don't need to take it in future? "
Is it possible to reverse skin atrophy caused by excess use of topical steroids?,Can you suggest me ways to reverse skin atrophy caused by topical steroids. Is it possible?
Is it safe to take fish oil and lisinopril together?,"I am on lisinopril, can I take fish oil with lisinopril together?"
Is it safe to take Tylenol (acetaminophen) Cold Multi Symptom Nighttime and 10mg of melatonin?,"I am having cold but I usually take melatonin 10 mg for sleep, can I take Tylenol (acetaminophen) cold multi symptom nighttime along with it? "
Is levaquin (levofloxacin) for diverticulitis?,Does doctor prescribe levaquin( levofloxacin) for diverticulitis?
"I smoke and drink alcohol, is my sperm healthy? Can it last 7 days inside the uterus?",Does smoking and drinking alcohol can affect the ability of sperm to remain viable inside the uterus for 7 days?
Is there any food that affects semen ejaculation volume?,Could you apprise me of some foods that can increase semen ejection volume?
Is there a shot available i can take annually that will reduce my reaction to poison ivy? I asked my doc.'s nurse and she said she never heard of such a thing.,"I often get poison ivy, is there any shot available to counter it?  My doctor's nurse say there isn't. "
"I stubbed my finger while working out. If i leave it alone, will it just go back to normal? And what is the time frame?",Do we need some active measures for the stubbed finger?
Is whey protein bad for men with endogenic hair fall?,I am having endogenic hair fall. Can I take whey protein?  Is it bad?
It is safe to take 20mg of Zyrtec (cetirizine) daily? I take it in the morning but 12 hrs later I am suffering. If I don't take another one at night I don't sleep.,I am not able to sleep. I usually take 20 mg Zyrtec (Cetirizine)  in the morning. Can I take another dose after 12 hours for sleeping?
I took 20mg of Prozac (fluoxetine) for 4 days. I have been off of it for 3 days. How long does it take to get out of my system?,"From past 3 days, I have not taken the Prozac( fluoxetine) 20 mg, which I had earlier taken for 4 days. Do you think, it's out of my system? How long does it take for it to get out of the system? "
I've had my tonsils out and my lymph nodes seem to be swollen lot can it be from allergies I get a lot of drainage?,Could allergies cause swollen lymph nodes and tonsils? I am also having lot of drainage.
I've had swollen throat with white spots no fever no pain.  For five days. Facial pain and now diarrhea. Do you think this  is strep throat?,"I was diagnosed with step throat with symptoms like throat pain, fever and swollen throat associated with white spots. Could it cause diarrhea and facial pain as well?"
I've used nasal spray and have taken Claritin and mucinex (guaifenesin). is there anything I can do to taste again?,"I am having loss of taste. I had already used nasal sprays, Claritin and even mucinex (guaifenesin) but still no help. Could you suggest me any more measures? "
"I was taking temazepam 30mg for sleep and it  barely worked,  they have now switched me to ambien which does not work for me at all.  For years i took?",I had sleep issues and was prescribed temazepam 30mg and then switched to ambien recently. I am having nausea and dizziness. Is this normal?
"Just had an operation on herniated disc l4/l5 and still same symptoms on left leg as before op i.E. Numbness and scrapping feeling, is this normal?",My doctor says operation on herniated disc corrects symptoms like numbness and scrapping feeling? Is he right?
Left side face slight numbness was diagnosed with bell's palsy but was not check for stroke  she is scared and wants to know what to do?,I have been told that left side face numbness is associated with bell’s palsy and even stroke. Could you apprise me of other symptoms of above two?
Lower abdominal cramps before passing stool. Why does this happen?,I am having lower abdominal cramps but I am passing stools normally. Is it happening due to pregnancy?
"Low lymphocytes for years on CBC, all else ok, 2 chest cts 14 mos apart both show same mildly enlarged L-nodes, some bilat, below 2 cms, diagnosis?","Could you help me with the diagnosis? I have low lymphocytes for years on CBC, 2 chest X rays which were done 14 months apart showed mildly enlarged lymph nodes below 2 cms. "
Might it be that a a child get cancer if parent had one?,Can a child get cancer if parents have it?
"My 2-year-old was given Cefdinir for very red throat but negative strep test, 2 siblings had strep. 3 days later has a fever. Back to dr?","Should I see the doctor again? My 2 year old who was prescribed cefdinir for red throat and negative strep  has developed fever 3 days later, his two sibling were diagnosed with strep. "
"My 4 year old son swallow about 10 mg rat killer pallet, I made him vomit by itching with finger in his throat and he vomit, what should I do next.?","I need help, my 4 year old  son swallowed 10mg rat killer pellet, though I made him vomit by itching his throat, what should I do next?  "
My 5 year old had dental surgery under general anesthesia. He had versed before and Dr said he'd forget everything he remembers it all how come?,I wanted to ask do doctor's put patient under general anesthesia even for dental surgery? My 5 year old is in due for that.
"My 92 y.O friend suffers with knee & ankle arthritis. She is on xarelto 15mg, will using arnica gel for pain interfere with this blood thinner ? Thank","I am 92 years old and on xarelto 15mg and suffering from knee and ankle arthritis, I have tried arnica gel for pain but it's not helping. Should I go to the doctor? "
My asthma flared up on 2mg albuterol and singulair (montelukast) have chest congestion what can i take OTC for congestion?,"I have my asthma flared up recently, I am currently on 2 mg albuterol and singulair (montelukast), could you prescribe me any OTC medication for some relief? "
"My dad has got a high pressure, cholesterol and diabetes he take a lot of medicine I am really scared about him what should he do?","I am worried for my dad, he has high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes. How can I help him? He is on medications though. "
"My dad has stage 4 nsclc, what tests he should normally do to check the progress/ regress? And how often.","My dad has been diagnosed with stage 4 nsclc, asked to undergo tets after every 4 months to check it's progress. What are his chances? "
"My D is experiencing blood on end of stool & on tissue. 3rd day in a row but only on morning bm! Have GP appointment for 5 days, is this soon enough?","I have appointment with GP in 5 days, as My D has been experiencing blood on end of stool and tissue from past 5 days during the morning bowel movement. Is waiting for 5 days, a good idea?   "
"My husband and I had unprotected sex and he comes. Inside me, he told me to jump to avoid the sperm penetrates the egg cell, is this true?",Can jumping after the intercourse prevent sperms penetration into the egg cell? My husband think it does.
"My rheumatologist said 'if a patient has lupus then prednisone doesn't work."" why is that?","Apart from prednisone, what are other option for lupus? I have appointment with my rheumatologist soon. "
My son was in the ER last night for a reaction to his Adderall after they give him Xanax (alprazolam) about 1130 last night he is seen things?,"Could you please help? My son was prescribed Adderall, he developed reaction to that, we took him to the ER, he was prescribed Xanax( Alprazolam) about 1130 lat night, now he is seeing things? "
My vitamin d level is 20...and taking vitamin d supplement gives me horrible muscle cramps even small dose 400..should I stop taking vitamin d ?,"I usually have strong muscle cramps after taking vitamin d, even a dose of 400 give me cramps but my vitamin D level is 20. Should I stop the supplement? "
Noticed small purple black lumps under foreskin on penis and one on penis head - (this one was already present before sex). Could it be genital warts?,Does genital warts present as small purple black lumps on foreskin and head of penis?
"One year old daughter crying for breast feed in night. Eats mild solids well. Not drinking bottle milk . Expects me always around her, else she cries?","My one year old daughter always wants me to breast feed her, even at night, unless she cries. What can I do? "
On second depo shot can it make your boobs hurt? Be sore can it also darken your nipples?,"Apart from boob soreness and darkening of nipples, what are other side effects of depo shots? "
"Out of the blue, my heart will just get this pain. It really hurts. Why?",I am having on/off chest pain and sometimes it appears out of the blue. Can you suggest any measures to subside it?
Period five days late when should I take pregnancy rest?,"I am worried, I am 5 days late for my periods, when should I take the pregnancy test? "
Please help! what is the surgery procedure called that removes the bony growth i know the first word is alveo?,Could you apprise me of the surgical procedure that helps in removing the bony growth? Is it something with alevo?
Should I throw away my hats to prevent reinfection from tinea capitis? Can the fungus stay on the fabric on the hat?,"I have recurrent tinea capitis. I also wear my hat a lot and I think it's causing this. Do you think fungus can stay that long on the hat fabric? If yes, should I throw my hat? "
Stopping the contraceptive pill after being on it for 8 years. How long will it be till I am fully natural with my cycle again? Will my acne return?,"I am having acne problem from past 8 years. My cycles are regular. The doctor advised me to take pills for acne issues. I want to know, if I start with the pills, would it disturb my cycles? "
Symptoms of arthritis in the spine?,I am have been diagnosed with spine arthritis. What can I do to subside its symptoms?
"Symptoms of breakthrough chickenpox occur on the body, treatment?",Could you educate me about chicken pox breakthrough symptoms on the body?
Think I slightly inflamed my breast tissue from self-examining them too hard. Could this cause an enlarged lymph node in the area?,Can self examination can cause enlarged lymph node? I think I inflamed my breast tissue after doing self examination.
"Total health.........,,,, I am having lower back stiffness,,,,,, weight loss,,,,, thick lips.............","I am having  lower back stiffness, weight loss and thick lips. What should I do? "
"Ttc fr 1yr after molar. Sperm normal, hsg norm, tsh-2.8 estrodiol-20.8fsh-9.6 lh-5.63prolactin-24.1amh-0.62afc-3.results normal? Wats next step? Age-28","I am 28 years old female trying to conceive from past 1 year. My test results are following- sperms normal, hsg normal, tsh-2.8 estradiol-20. fsh-9.6 lh-5.6prolactin-24. amh-0.6 afc-0,3. Are these results normal?"
Ultrasound shows enlarged gland with at least 3 nodules the biggest being 3.6 CM * 3.2cm.  the nodule is solid with increased vascularity. Diagnosis?,"My ultrasound report mentioned enlarged gland with 3 nodules, biggest being 3.6CM* 3.2CM with increased vascularity. Is cancer my diagnosis? "
"US=Diffuse thickening+edema of gastrocnemius. MD said its ok, ice it. Is this true? Leg's been hurting a lot for months. Now I limp after >10min walk","I am having leg pain along with limping even after a 10 min walk. US revealed diffuse thickening and edema of the gastrocnemius. I am icing the region, have appointment with my MD next month. Do I need surgery? "
What are some illnesses of the lymphatic system?,Could you educated me about some illnesses of lymphatic system?
What are some sources of vitamin d?,Could you apprise me about the sources of vitamin D?
What are the healings from hydrotherapy ?,"Hydrotherapy is known to have many healings, could you educate? "
What are the known symptoms of spondylolisthesis?,Could you apprise me about the symptoms of spondylolisthesis?
What are the symptoms of diphtheria,Could you apprise me of the symptoms of diphtheria?
What does it mean when u have to take a deep breath to breath vetter?,"I have been told to breathe deeper to breathe better, what does that mean? "
What do you advise if i had which were growling stomach and excessive flatulence. What could've caused this?,"I have been having growling stomach and excessive flatulence, what it could be and what should I do? "
What do you advise if I sprained my ankle about 2 weeks ago and the foot is feeling numb?,My foot is numb and had sprained my ankle 2 weeks ago. Can you suggest some home remedies?
What is an easy home remedy for premature ejaculation?,Could you apprise me of some easy home remedies for premature ejaculation?
What is neuromyotonia (isaacs syndrome)?,Could you educate me about neuromyotonia also known as isaacs syndrome?
What is the direction of some legitimate plastic surgeons that deal in cleft lips?,Can a normal surgeon also operate on cleft lip? I heard only plastic surgeons can operate on that.
What is the maximum amount of Valium someone can take without overdosing?,"I am afraid, I may overdose. Could you tell me what's the maximum dose of Valium that one can take? "
What might cause glands in my armpit to swell?,I am having swollen up glands in my armpit. What are the causes?
What r the main symptom of acute HIV?,Could you educate me about the main symptoms of HIV?
"What should you do if a condom tears, while having intercourse?","Can one have condom tear while having intercourse? If yes, what one should do?"
What supplement or vitamin can I take that would increase blood circulation to knee?,"I am having knee issues, what supplements or vitamins can I take to increase blood circulation to the knee? "
What symptoms will I have if  I have strep throat?,Could you apprise me about the symptoms of strep throat?
What tests are done to figure if you have circulation problems in thighs sometimes when standing too long. What exer can I do to  when it comes ?,"Does doing long standing work or exercises cause circulation problems of thigh? I work in the testing lab, where we stand for long time."
What to do if I'm allergic to sunscreen but I work out in the sun all day what can I do from stop getting burn?,I am allergic to sun light and tend to get sunburn while working out in the sun. Can sunscreen lotions help me?
What will happen if a normal 19 year old guy took viagra (sildenafil)?,"I am 19 year old male. I am planning to take viagra ( sildenafil). Could you educate me, what might happen? "
"When I go to my doctor and tell him I urinate a lot, will he be able to determine if I'm diabetic or not?","Besides urinating a lot, what are other symptoms of diabetes? My doctor says I am diabetic. "
Why do spider bites take so long to heal?,"I had a spider bite last week and it's still not healing, why it's taking too long? "
Why I have abdominal obesity with fatty thighs and upper limb muscle atrophy?,I have abdominal obesity with fatty thighs but upper limb looks atrophied. Is it serious?
Will an infection in a belly piercing cause flu symptoms?,"I am having flu symptoms, as I think my belly piercing is infected. Can you suggest some remedies? "
"According to my boyfriend last time I had an absence events I had tears rolling down my cheeks but I wasn't sobbing or anything, is this normal?",I am diagnosed with absence seizures and the last time I had one tears are rolling but I was not sobbing or crying. Is it normal? My boy friend is concerned.
After many courses of antibiotics i still have the helicobacter bacteria. What can you advise me?,"Hello doctor, I have been h.pylori bacteria. Am I at risk of getting cancer?"
Are monochorionic-diamniotic twins usually healthy at birth?,Are monochorionic-diamniotic twins healthy at the time of birth?
Are there any medications or treatment options to help with bloating and discomfort during an IBS flare up ?, I am diagnosed with IBS and do you know any medications which may help ease bloating and burping?
Are there any sides effect of not doing the communicating hydrocele repair?,I am 15 years and sustained an injury in the scrotal area a week back and has swelling. Is it a hydrocele?
A week ago i used Monistat 1 (tioconazole) to treat a yeast infection. Now I have a vaginal odor and I am wondering if I should use safeguard soap to help the smell?,I used Monistat 1 to treat yeast infection and have vaginal odor and now can I use safeguard soap to help with smell?
Blood pressure is good sitting down 120/75. But just walking across room it goes to 140/90.  I'm not over weight or in bad shape. Should I be concern?,I am not obese and I am in good shape. Blood pressure is 120/75 when sitting down and when walking blood pressure is 140/90. I am concerned as to what to do.
Can a ultrasound show tumors in the kidney or stomach cancer and what does it mean when a ultrasound show a swollen kidney air around kidney and a possible blockage for a 7 year old girl thanks very much?,My 7 year old girl USG showed swollen kidney air around Kidneys and a possible blockage. Can a kidney tumor and stomach cancer be seen on the USG?
"Can I get an std, such as HIV from mutual materbation with my partner? Cum touched clit but didn't go inside vagina and also touched a cut on my hand",I got tested for HIV after 3 weeks after having unprotected intercourse. Is my test accurate?
Can I take oral terbinafine for onychomycosis? I had taken 45 oral terbinafine.Now foot toenail skin are red & pain. It will cure?,"Has taking oral terbinafine for onychomycosis and has taken 45 pills. Now foot, toenail, skin are red and painful. Wanted to  know if terbinafine may help. "
Can metronidazole topical cream be used vaginally?,Hello doctor? Can I use metronidazole topical cream vaginally?
Can my child with hemophilia participate in activities?,My child is diagnosed with hemophilia? He wants to participate in school marathon and games. Can he participate?
"Can rogaine (minoxidil) cause weight gain, body aches and pain in the kidney area? I've been on it nearly a month.",Hello doctor I have been given minoxidil to apply for hair loss. I am not sure how to use it. Can you help?
Can scar tissue on the uterus or bladder show up on an ultrasound?,"Hello doctor, I am diagnosed with fibroid after my ultrasound scan yesterday. What are the treatment options for fibroids?"
Can the ointment mupirocin USP 2% cause a rash when applied if its expired?,"Hello doctor, I am using Mupirocin for my wound and it healed and now can I apply bandaid after applying mupirocin?"
Can underactive detrusor ever return to normal?,"I am on a catheter for underactive detrusor and now the area around the catheter is painful, red and swollen. What I can do to help?"
Can you explain how to pass marijuana drug test?,Can you please tell me how to pass a marijuana drug test as I have been on marijuana for 5 weeks?
Cycle was 2 weeks late with negative preg tests. Period was 14 days of light to medium bleeding. Now I have thick brown discharge.,"Hello doctor, I am 16 years and have acne, obesity, delayed cycles, mood swings, etc.. My doctor diagnosed me with PCOS. I am prescribed oral contraceptive pills. Is this the right treatment? "
"Do i have to prove that im deficient in gh in order to get therapy, i've heard gh is already been approved for height increasing purpose from 2003?",I have growth hormone deficiency. Can you please let me know about the common symptoms an treatment plan with growth hormone deficiency?
"Every morning I wake up perfectly normal, about an hour later, I am so tired. I can barely stay awake. I am also kind of dizzy. And confused.?","After waking up an hour later I get tired and can stay awake, I am dizzy and confused as well. "
"Feels like something is stuck in throat, shoulder and chest feels mildly heavy, upper back ache. No more coughing. What can this be?","I have feeling of something stuck in throat, dizziness, anxious, stress and heaviness and I am on Lexapro for my anxiety. My symptoms started worsening even after taking the medication. Should I need to change my medication? "
"Had sex then took plan b pill next day, few days after pill came light bleeding for 3 days, could I still be pregnant?","Hello doctor, I took plan B 4 months ago and had regular cycles after that. Can I take one more plan B? How frequent should I take the pill?"
Had sex using condom and withdrawal 1 week after start of last period. Not on bc. Now having lower stomach pressure period due in one week. Pregnant?,"After a week after my last period, I had intercourse using a condom and withdrawal method. I am not on birth control. I have lower abdominal pressure and cramps and my period is due in a week. Am I pregnant?"
"Hi I just found out I contracted an std. My doctor prescribed me Azithromycin 500, they are too big to swallow, am I able to crush them up with food?",I contracted STD and now I am prescribed 500mg of Azithromycin and I cannot swallow them. Can I crush them and take them with food?
How can I handle friends that call me a 'junkie' for all my medications for my disability?,I am diagnosed with depression and have social anxiety. I am being socially isolated and humiliated because of my disability. I am given Zoloft. Do zoloft help me with my depression and what are my side effects?
How can I know if I have a varicose vein or a blood blister?,How can I know if I have a varicose vein or if it is a foot blister? Can you help me?
How do you fix loose upper dentures?,"After getting by dentures fixed I have pain which is severe, worsening and has swelling and difficulty swallowing. Does this point out to an infection? "
How likely is someone to give meningitis to someone if he's gotten the vaccine?,How likely is it to get meningitis after getting vaccination done?
How long after conception does implantation bleeding start? Last period 11/13-18 unprotected sex nov 2"Hello doctor, I am on birth control pills and I am sexually active. I am spotting now after 3 weeks and is it withdrawal bleeding or implantation bleeding? "
How safe is the use of azt (zidovudine) for HIV positive mothers?,I am HIV positive. I am on Zidovudine for my treatment and my CD4 count is in control. How long will it take for my HIV to become full blown AIDS?
How to cure urine infection?,"Hello doctor, can I know if the antibiotics used for UTI will cause yeast infections?"
How to figure out how many calories per day for a teenage girl to lose weight?,I am an obese female and I tried eating healthy diet and counting my calories. I started work out. I lost about 40 pounds in 5 months and I have some loose skin on my arms and hands. How do I tone them?
How to have your vaginal discharge smell nice?,"After having intercourse with my partner, my vagina smells and I have itching and pain. Do I have a STD?"
"I am 17 years old, and I have had troubles keeping or even maintaining an erection before sex. I have tried multiple times and don't know what to do anymore. It's really imbarrassing but my girlfriend said I should go see a doctor about it. I only masterb","Hello doctor I have pain with erection, sensitivity and blood in semen? Am I going to die? Is it cancer?"
I am 19 yrs old and how can I do a good body workout?,Can you please advise my about good body work outs? I am 19 years old.
I am experiencing urinary dribbling and abnormal urine stream. Recently catheterized during surgery could this have caused my issues?,"Hello doctor, can you please tell me about symptoms of over active bladder as I have excessive urination, unable to control my bladder and voiding difficulty and I think I have overactive bladder. "
"I discovered I get this weakness in my hand whenever I try to snap my fingers, slight pain runs across elbow and wrist?","I have weakness in my arms, legs and face on one side and it started suddenly. There is tingling and numbness as well. I am concerned. "
Ie been gettin white mucus in my eyes for the past two years and im not sick. What could it possible be?,I have been getting white mucus in eyes for 2 years and eyes are not sticky and asking what could the causes be?
"If both metanephrine fractionated tests were abnormal, what is the likelihood the ct of the abdomen and pelvis being abnormal. Was done w/wo contrast.",I got the metanephrine fractionated tests and both the tests are abnormal. I am about to get CT abdomen and pelvis done with out or with contrast and I want to know about the likelihood of the test being abnormal.
If I go to ER with a tooth ache will it be pulled?,Hello doctor I have sever tooth ache and will my teeth be pulled out?
If I took 2 Claritin (loratadine) + d 24 hr pills yesterday at 2pm and took 1 Claritin (loratadine) + d 24 hr pill today at 7am did I technically overdose?,Hello doctor I have cough and cold? I have congestion and I am allergic to pollen and exposed to pollen yesterday. Can I take Claritin to help ease symptoms?
If I took the morning after pill within 11hrs after having unprotected sex what are my chances of not being pragent?,Can I take Plan B when I am on antibiotics for my sinus infection? Am I safe?
I had a root canal 3 months ago but tooth is still sensitive to hot. What could be the reason?,I had root canal 3 months back and my tooth is still sensitive to heat. May I know what is the cause?
I had a surgery on my right scaphoid and it's been ok till now. It's hurting so bad I want to break down and idk what to take because Advil (ibuprofen) isn't working and the doctor office is closed what do I do?,Had surgery on right scaphoid and now have bad pain and Advil is not working. I am concerned.
I had unprotected sex 7 or so days before my periodthree days later I had light bloodthat lasted for two days instead of usual 7. Am I pregnant?,I had unprotected period a week before period. 3 days later I had spotting for 2 days and now I want to if I am pregnant ad there is no period for usual 7 days.
"I have a rash or damage skin on my stomach area and a little on my arms. The rash itches, red, flaky. I wanted to know what u thoughs were?",I had unprotected sex and now after 2 weeks I have rash on stomach and fever. Do I have HIV?
"I have been on klonopin (clonazepam) for my gad for about 4 years, 2mg a day. How long will the withdrawals last? Or when is it out of my system?","Hello doctor, I am diagnosed with GAD and was given Klonopin an I have been on the medication for few months. Now, the medication is not helping and my doctor wants to change me to celexa. Can I know about the side effects and efficacy of each? Which medication do you think is better?"
I have been tested for every STD everything came back normal the only problem is my pH is at 8 how do I lower to 4?,"Hello doctor, how are you? I am having problem with my vaginal ph and it is at 8 and how to lower it? I am tested negative for STD. /"
"I have hemorrhoids that are bleeding & painful. Have done sitz baths, using prep h wipes & cream. Nothing is helping. Please advise?","Has hemorrhoids and I have bleeding, pain and I have done sitz bath and using prep H wipes and cream. Can you pleas tell me what to do?"
"I just found out today that I have chlamydia, but I breastfeed.  Is it possible that my child could have it to?","Hello doctor, I am diagnosed with chlamydia and I am breastfeeding. Do you think my child will have chlamydia?"
I'm 4 days late for my period I am very stressed 2 nights i was about 10 hours late taking my birth control he did pull out. Could i be pregnant?,I am 4 days late for period and is stressed since 2 nights. Is late for taking BC by 10 hours and what are my chances of being pregnant.
"I'm 5 weeks pregnant and this morning had brownish spotting, my gyn said this is normal and ita was due to implantation, should I be worried?",I am 5 weeks pregnant and has brown spotting and my gynecologist said it it implantation bleeding. Doctor said it is normal. Should I be worried?
"I'm on my period, and i had unprotected sex, and he came inside me. 2 days later, the bleeding from my period stopped. Is that a chance of pregnancy?",I had intercourse on the second day of my pregnancy and it as unprotected. After intercourse my bleeding stopped 3 days back. Is there any chance of pregnancy?
I'm on opioids & want off. I am very messed up psychologically from my husband leaving me and I'm depressed. Dr put me on anti dep. Not working.?,"Hello doctor I am on opioids and stopped them and now I am having chills, nausea, tremors, insomnia. Are these symptoms relate to withdrawal? How long will it take for withdrawal symptoms to get  better?"
"I m taking Clomid (clomiphene) since 3/4 month and my cycle 29 days, I m testing my ovulation every time and getting positive on 14/15 days and for 4 days is it ok?",I had unprotected intercourse on all the days of ovulation and what are my chances of getting pregnant?
I'm taking prednisone for erythema multiforme and combined it with Nabumetone. A sunburn like rash has formed on my chest and arms. Please advice.?,"Doctor I  have been exposed to extreme heat and I have redness, soreness, pain and blister formation. Is it a sun burn? Do I need to go to the doctor?"
"I'm training for a marathon and am having pain in my plantaris muscle, how can I help myself?","Hello doctor, I have pain and swelling in my heal for 6 months and I am diagnosed with plantar fascitis. May I ask how long will it take to heal? "
"I recently stopped birth control. My last period was16 oct, my cycles last about 32 days. I started noticing light blood from nov 2 until 15th?","Doctor I stopped my birth control pills recently. How long after stopping them, can I get pregnant? "
Is a brain injury/ brain damage considered to be the same as a mental illness?,Doctor I think I have mental illness. I am anxious and stressed. Which doctor should I see?
Is banana fattening? Some people say combining banana with milk makes you gain weight. Some say banana in itself cause fat. What is true??,I heard banana is rich in potassium. I am having diarrhea and can I take banana.
Is it.Okay to brush after filling?,"Hello doctor, I got my teeth filled and when can I brush my teeth?"
Is it possible for a seven panel urine drug screen to distinguish between Vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine) and concerta?,Hello doctor I am on Vyvanse and Concerta. Is it possible for seven panel urine drug test to distinguish between both?
Is there a way I can talk to someone about the subscription I just purchased for your service?,"Hello doctor, I ran out out my hypertensive medication. Can I get the prescription refilled with out subscribing to your service?"
"I took Plan B on Feb. 11th, 2015 after having unprotected sex two days before. Now tonight I had protected sex, but the condom broke. I am wondering if the Plan B is still effective 5 days later? And if not, is it safe to consume another Plan B pill?","Hello doctor, I am of 18 years age and I had unprotected sex. Can I take Plan B? Do I need a prescription?"
I took the morning after pill last sat am and started nuvaring that evening. I removed nuvaring 2 days ago and not started. That normal?,"Hello doctor, I am on birth control pills and can I take Plan B when on pills? "
I've been diagnosed with acid reflux GERD heartburn anxiety and pharyngitis I have been constipated for a week i went today and there was a white spot?,"I have been diagnosed with acid reflux, GERD, heartburn, anxiety and pharyngitis and have been constipated and today I have white spot on throat. I am concerned. "
I've been taking 25mg Benadryl (diphenhydramine) 2-3 time a day for about 6 months for involuntary movements. What can I expect as withdrawal symptoms if I stop?,"Hell doctor, I am pregnant and I wanted to ask if I can take Benadryl for my allergies. Any input would be great. "
"I've had this bruise on my thigh for at least two months, and it still hasn't healed. Could it be skin cancer?",I have a bruise on my thigh for 2 months and it is not healing. May I know if it is skin cancer?
I've noticed that after a few weeks of working out when i eat something it messes with my stomach and i end up with diarrhea before bed. Why?,"I am having diarrhea, constipation, fever, nausea and bloating. I eat healthy, do not smoke and exercise regularly. I have no stress. Do I have IBS?"
I was using the bathroom and was cleaning the toilet after I finished I had a bandaid on both hands I raised the seat to clean it looked like dry blood?,I have cut on my hand from cutting vegetables. I applied a bandaid and bleeding stopped. Do I need to take T.T injection?
I would like help with my toddler. How do you cure a yeast infection?,Hello doctor can you please tell me how to cure a yeast infection. I want to help my toddler.
"Kleptomania, can it be passed down in the genes?",Doctor do you know if there is any treatment for kleptomania?
"Last week, doctor put me me on omeprazole for gastritis (no prior stomach issues.)  since then, i've had a few green poops of middling consistency.  ?","Hello doctor, I am on Omeprazole for my gastritis and Lexapro for depression. Can I drink alcohol on this?"
"My baby has red pimple like bumps on her arm and leg, they look almost like bug bites. They just appear. What could they be?","Baby has red pimple like bumps on arms, legs and they look like bug bite and asking what they could be."
"My boyfriend has been experiencing shortness of breathe for the past week, he went to the doctor they checked all his vital signs and his oxygen level and everything came back a okay, do you have any idea what the problem may be ? Please help i'm really w","I have shortness of breath, dizziness, chest discomfort, tingling, numbness and palpitations when I get tensed. Is this a symptoms of anxiety? "
"My ccp ab IgG came back at 22 sed in january 15 to now at 50. I was then put on prednisone until I see the RA may 6th. What my safest treatment?",I have been diagnosed with RA but my ccc ab antibodies are normal. How definitive are the antibiotic levels in diagnosing RA?
My daughter is still displaying symptoms of type 1 diabetes. What can we do?,Hello doctor my daughter is having symptoms of type 1 diabetes. What I can do to help?
My father is 81 and has Parkinson's disease for the last 3 years. He can't even move his hands & legs. What can I do to support him?,Hello doctor I am 18 years of age  and there is Parkisnsons running in my family. Is the disease heredity. What are my chances ending up getting Parkisons?
My first sonogram said I was 7 weeks pregnant due date 3/22. Next appointment (5 weeks later) sono measured baby at 13weeks. Duedate changed to 3/15. Y?,Hello doctor I had sex on 14th  june with ex and 18th with husband. My usg showed due date as March 23rd. How can I know who is the father?
My gf had her period then after 2days. We had sex she took planb its been 2week already she hasnt had her period is it because she just had her period?,Hello doctor I am on birth control pills and I had unprotected sex. Can I take Plan B along with birth control pills?
My wife toke Plan B and 6 days later she started to spot for 2 days and stop could she be pregnant or its cause she been of Depo-Provera only a year?,I am on BC pills yaz and I had unprotected intercourse. Should I take Plan B?
Numbness on right side of my cheek  some twitching no other symptoms elsewhere what could it be?,I have numbness and tingling all over my body and I am a known diabetic. Is having numbness and tingling a common side effect seen with diabetes.
"On 30mg Synthoid. Was on Armour. Liked Armour, but PCP switched. All internet chatter sings praises of Armour and blasts Synthroid. Why?  Armour better",I was on Armour for about 3 years and my PCP prescribed synthroid instead of armour. Are both the medications same or is there any difference between the both? What are the side effects of each?
"On Clomid (clomiphene) Just finished taking last pill. Just noticed if I squeeze right nipple quite strongly, a very tiny amount of clear sticky liquid came out?",I have been on clomid for few days and finished the last pill and have nipple discharge from right nipple if squeezed strongly.
Please describe a good source of calcium for children that have a milk allergy?,I take one calcium pill and iron pill daily. I have constipation now. What can I do to help?
"Please tell me, could a dentist remove a tooth when infection is present?","Hello doctor, I have infected tooth and I am prescribed amoxycillin.  Can I take motrin along with amoxycillin for the pain?"
Possibility of being pregnant had sex and bleeded. Is that normal or is there something wrong?,"Hello doctor, I had intercourse and it is very painful and there is no bleeding. It is my first time. Is it normal?"
"Smoked half a pack year when I was 20 and quit. Will my lungs ever be healthy, also what long term damage if any should I be concerned about?",Hello doctor I smoke half a packet of cigarettes and I am obese. Also I am alcoholic. May I ask if I am in risk for getting a stroke?
"Surg only way to diag endometriosis? Since C Section pain in hip during pms, bad cramps ultrasounds labs pap were fine dr not concerned hormone changes?","Hello doctor, I am 15 and I have severe pain during periods?? Do I have endometriosis? What are the symptoms? "
Took a pregnancy test came up positive but very faint an I had an abortion 3 weeks ago what does this mean thanks?,Had abortion 3 weeks back and now my pregnancy test is still weakly positive. What does that mean?
Two negative STD tests and urinalysis doctor said he don't know what it is but still mild burning when I pee. Would NSU show up on test and culture?,"I have burning sensation while passing urine, abdominal pain, cramps, odor, frequent urge and fever since 2 days? Do I have an UTI? My STD tests 3 months back is negative.  "
What are some tips for making it easier to use eyedrops?,"Hello doctor, I have been having dry eyes and I am prescribed eye drops. Can you let me know how to use the drops?"
"What are the reasons some people use digital pregnancy tests, and some use non digital? Besides the obvious, what's different about them",I think I am pregnant? May I ask when is the right time to take a pregnancy test?
What are the right tests to take to determine and rule out systemic candida? Specifics please. Thankyou.,"Hello, I guess I have candida symptoms. Can you please tell me how to diagnose and treat it?"
What are the symptoms of having a meniscal root tear in the knee? Please explain,"Hello doctor, I am recovering from meniscal tear injury and I have practice foot ball match tomorrow. I have no symptoms at present except the mild pain. Can I go for practice tomorrow?"
What are vasopressors?,Hello doctor what are vasopressors?
What can be done about a sore throat asap?,Hello doctor? I have a lingering sore throat and can I know few remedies which may help.
What can cause light yellow vaginal discharge? Also sore vagina? STD tests all clear never had this before. Can long term abx be a cause?,I have light yellow vaginal discharge along with soreness. Have been on antibiotics for UTI. STD testing is clear. Can using antibiotics be a cause?
What can cause random blackouts / seizures?,"Hello doctor, can I know the random causes of balck outs and seizures?"
What can cause ssri shock-like sensations if you been off an ssri for 45 days?,I am on SSRI for my depression but stopped them 2 months back and I am still having shock like sensations. How long do they last?
What can cause upper left sharp pain that radiates to back with vomiting/paleness/weakness? This has gone on for 5 years.,"Hello doctor, I have nausea, vomiting, bloating and acid reflux. Symptoms started after I ate spicy food. Can I take TUMS for my symptoms? "
What can I do to treat my pimples by tomorrow without products?,"Hello doctor, I have acne prone skin and I had break out yesterday. Tomorrow I have prom to attend in school and I would like to know about any natural remedies which will help with by pimples by tomorrow. "
What causes you to vomit with a itchy throat?,"I have been vomiting around 3-4 episodes daily, diarrhea, fever, stomach pain, nausea and chills. May I know what the cause is?"
"What does it mean to have 91 for THYROID PEROXIDASE ANTIBODIES, <1 for THYROGLOBULIN ANTIBODIES, TSH 4.4 and T (liothyronine) TOTAL 72; no symptoms?",Hello doctor my thyroid results have been abnormal and I am given synthroid to take. Can you tell me how to take the medication?
What does it mean when muscles jump like in your arm is this anything serious?,Doctor can I know if stress causes muscle twitching in arms and also do excessive caffeine intake be a cause?
What do you suggest if my grandma had 2 massive strokes so on?,"I have severe headache. I smoke, drink and I am obese. I am stressed. Am I in risk of getting a stroke?"
What is best material for bleaching teeth?,"Hello, I have yellowish stains on my teeth and I want to know any home remedies or things to use to bleach my teeth in home?"
What is humor therapy?,"Hello doctor, I want to know what is humor therapy  and if it is useful or no? "
What is that company that tests for gene for smelly urine from asparagus?,Hello doctor can you please tell me about the company that tests for genes for smelly urine from asparagus?
What is the anti-dose of taking too many cetirizine hydrochloride? My friend has tried to commit suicide. What should I do to keep her safe from danger?,Hello doctor I am taking cetirizine hydrochloride for my allergies. Can I take Benadryl along with it?
What is the definition or description of: duct?,Doctor what is a duct and can I know about it?
What is the prevalence of green eyes? Are they rare?,Hello doctor may I know the chances of one getting green eyes? Is it rare?
What is the treatment for maxillary sinus carcinoma?,"Hello doctor, can I know the symptoms of maxillary sinus carcinoma. "
What is uterine perforation and how is it treated?,I am scheduled for hysterectomy next Sunday.  I am scared. What are the side effects? What are the chances of getting uterine perforation from the surgery?
What kind of therapies are done after a knee cap breaks?,"Hello doctor, I broke my knee cap and may I know which therapies can be done? "
What long term health problems can you have if you take pain medicine on a regular basis?,"I am suffering from chronic pain and am taking pain medications, may I ask what are the long term side effects?"
Whats an over-the-counter drug for chron's disease?,"Hello doctor, may I know what are the symptoms of Crohn's? "
What should be done to loss the weight of the body in very short time?,I lost more than 15 lbs of weight in a month with out change in diet or exercise. I am having fever and night chills. May I know what is the cause?
Whats the best medication to treat yeast infections that a doctor can prescribe? Excluding diflucan (fluconazole),Hello doctor I want to know what are the other treatment options apart from diflucan for yeast infections?
What's the best treatment for burns?,"Hello doctor, can you please let me know about the treatment of burns?"
What's the best way to deal 3rd degree bed sore?,"Hello doctor, I have been given antibiotics to help ease my 3rd degree bed sore. May I know if I can continue my hypertensive medications with the antibiotics?"
What to do if I am 17 year old guy.2 days ago I noticed weak erections and now I can't even maintain it?,Do you know if masturbation has any effects on erections?
What to do if I have 3000mg of tegretol; 200mg pills. Is this lethal enough?,Hello doctor I overdosed on Ativan. I took 5 pills at once. Will I die?
Whenever I sit continuously for a long time then I get numbness tingling in my arms legs and stiffness tightness in head or face. Plz please tell what to do?,"I have numbness and tingling in arms, legs, stiffness, tightness in head or face. This happens when I sit for long. Asking what to do?"
When your iris leaks into your pupil is it the same as pupil into iris? What is it called? What causes? What problems can arise?,I am using marijuana for long and now my pupils are dilated. Is it a side effect and is it something serious?
Where do I go for suspected wound infection ( not surgeon but I did not have surgery.It is a wound that healed by itself)?,"Hello doctor, I have wound infection and I am given amoxycillin for the infection. How should I take the medication and how long should I use the medication?"
Which is better a partial hysterectomy or uterine ablation?,"Hello doctor, I am having severe bleeding and I am diagnosed with fibroids. My doctor advised for hysterectomy. I am obese and I have history of diabetes. Am I at risk? How long will it take for me to recover from the surgery? "
Why does my vagina burn so much when I have sex with my husband? It only burns when I'm laying on my back or doggie style.,"Hello doctor I have burning sensation in vagina, cheese like discharge, itching and odor since 1 week. Do I have yeast infection? "
Worried about lung cancer. Up back pain over 1 year now.  Had chest CT 8 months ago it was ok. 3 mris of throastic ok. Some cervical stenosis. Worry?,Hello doctor I have upper back pain after an Injury and x-ray and CT taken and all is normal. Doctor said it is a sprain. It has been 3 weeks and I find no improvement. Does that make sense?
2 years ago i had lyme ab screen mildly elevated but western blot all non reactive. Now im testing pos for igm 23 and igm 41. What does this mean?,Can Lyme ab test positive after 2 years of exposure? I'm not sure if it can stay positive for this long.
6mm ground glass ill defined upper left lung what percentage that its not cancer I am getting another CT scan in dec. To check for growth?,Does a CT report that says 6mm ground glass ill defined upper left lung mean cancer for sure?
4 5 days I feel pressure and pain in the front lobe part of the head. I feel dizzy. I thought it was just a cold. Ibuprofen was usell. Do I have sinusitis?,Can sinusitis cause pressure and pain on the frontal side of the head along with dizziness?
8 month old looks to the side or looks up and after a couple of seconds shakes his head and fusses. is that normal or absence seizers?,Is an 8 month old looking to the side and up and shaking the head after a couple of seconds considered as having absent seizures?
2 weeks of big toe pain now in knee/wrist. Dix uric acid 465.2umol/L. Why is voltaren (diclofenac) helps but why is it not going away? First attack ever,I am diagnosed with gout recently with uric acid levels 465.2umol/L according to my test reports. I have been experiencing big toe pain for last 2 weeks but my knee and wrist hurt as well now. I was prescribed medications by my doctor. How long does it take for my uric acid levels to come back to normal range?
4 days late. 2 bfn (urine test). Is it to early to get a bfp? When is the best time to go for a blood test to get a positive result?,"I missed my period by 4 days. Though my urine pregnancy test kit says negative, I am very much worried as I am just 15. I read that blood pregnancy test is more accurate than urine test. I know my parents should accompany me for that and I don't want my parents to find out about this. Is there any way I can abort this pregnancy without them finding out?"
2 period in 1 month am i pregnant ?,Does getting period twice in a month means pregnancy?
15 days late of period took Plan B emergency contraception 5 days before expected period went through 3 pregnancy test all negative am I pregnant?,"Hello doctor, I had unprotected intercourse an hour back. When can I take plan B and what are the side effects?"
36 M with clean cardiac echo stress and lipids. No risk factors. Pain in lower back and localized pain in upper left chest for 9 mths. Cardiac? Scared,I have been having some chest pain for a few hours now. Can my anxiety be causing it?
36 weeks and dr said she felt baby's head from vagina is labour close?,Am I close to labor if my doctor felt the baby's head from the vagina?
21 yr female sexually active have an increase in appetite stay hungry and more bowel movements what could be wrong ?,Can sexual intercourse stimulate one's appetite and gut movements?
34 year old male. Graying hair. Has been stressful past year of change in life. Does stress affect this in men? Any advice to slow graying/thinning?,Do you think being stressed for a year or so can have effects on hair? I am 34 year old male and have gray hair. Do you have any tips?
24yo f  find myself sweating on face and upper body feeling so hot while doing simple tasks  lasts for few hours .,Is it normal for a 24 year old female to sweat on face and upper body for few hours while doing simple tasks?
115 million  sperm can be a father?,Hello doctor I am trying to conceive for 2 years and all my tests are normal and the sperm analysis of my husband is normal as well. What can be done to help?
126 yo m with history of progressive venous insufficiency failed one year of conservative management. + family hx. Is delaying surgery a good idea?,"Hello doctor, can you please tell me some of the common symptoms seen with venous insufficiency?"
132 weeks pregnant. Headache strange leg weakness. Should I call doctor?,"I am 32 weeks pregnant and had severe headache, blurred vision, pedal edema and diagnosed with eclampsia and given medications. Should I change any diet to help ease my eclampsia? "
providers: What is Walker-Warburg Syndrome?
What is Noonan syndrome?
Pregnancy test is negative today, but patient had sex recently. When should we check it again?
What is the proper treatment for a dog bite?
What tests should be run for leukocyte adhesion deficiency?
Preliminary amniocentesis back. Not normal. What does genotype mean?
What are the presenting symptoms of Behcet's disease?
Can you breast feed when you have the stomach flu?
What is the dose of theophylline?
What dose of Robitussin should I give?
How can I understand past bronchopulmonary dysplasia spells in a patient with chronic lung disease?
What are the causes of fixed and dilated pupils?
How do I do a vecuronium drip?
What dosage of Amicar is needed?
What are the symptoms of Alport's Syndrome?
What dose of acyclovir does this patient need?
Why do phenobarbital and Dilantin counteract each other?
How often does Henoch-Schoenlein Purpura occur and in what population?
What is Kussmaul breathing?
What is this rash and what is causing it?
What dosage of Miralax does this patient need?
Do we need to work up a child who had a tracheostomy, has a runny nose, and is on a ventilator?
How does mother's herpes simplex virus affect care of infant?
What are these two rashes, one on the face and one on the trunk?
What is the treatment for this rash?
For diabetes insipidus, when do we use DDAVP (desmopressin) in regard to sodium levels?
Where is the Society for Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics Web site and their fellowship directory?
What are the effects of hypercarbia on cardiovascular function?
What does "FA" mean for a hemoglobinopathy screen?
What is general information about sickle cell disease?
How do we interpret this cerebrospinal fluid cell count?
How long should intravenous antibiotics be continued when they were not indicated?
What are the sources of hypertension? Is post-streptococcal one?
What is dysfibrinogenemia?
How do I manage atrial flutter?
How do you treat scleroderma?
Patient was seizing.  How to appropriately correct low serum sodium (113) that was causing the seizing? Patient was on a stimulant.
Baby with brain abnormalities. What other things should we be looking for?
What is the best way to treat a pleural effusion in this 3-year-old with pneumonia?
What is the dosage of ursodiol?
Which drugs should we be using for this paralytic patient?
What should I do about a demyelinating disease? The patient and parents are concerned about its progressing.
How do I manage newly diagnosed diabetes?
How do we start feeds on newborn infants?  What rate do we feed them at?
A patient has complex pulmonary and genetic abnormalities, fever, respiratory distress, desaturated. Is this more than usual asthma?
How do I manage respiratory distress in this cardiac patient?
What is the treatment of osteosarcoma?
How do we treat rhabdomyolysis?
What dose of Versed (for sedation) does this patient need?
How do you manage this patient with renal stones?
We looked up tinea capitis and griseofulvin.
How do you treat a child with recurrent vomiting?
Should I use cimetidine to treat warts? Are there studies that show efficacy?
What are the toxic effects and treatment of Tegretol overdosing?
What should be monitored for this kid that swallowed crack cocaine?
How does pulmonary artery banding work on tricuspid atresia?
My patient is allergic to Ilosone. Is erythromycin the same thing?
How do you manage neonatal abstinence syndrome?
Do we have any patient information on idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (handout)?
What is the drug dose of cefuroxime?
What dosage of famotidine does this patient need?
Patient was running and fell. The bones of the foot looked abnormal on x-ray. What is wrong?
What are the procedures for single ventricle heart in a baby? What kind of heart surgery?
How do we diagnose Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia?
What dosage of phenobarbital is needed?
What is the workup of suspected urinary tract infection?
Child seen in clinic with allergies. Prescribed hydroxyzine. Child is hyper. Is this a side effect?
What is the dose of Cotrim?
Why are several different girls on different birth control pills?
What are the doses for these medications (half a dozen) that I need to give this leukemia patient?
Was the diagnosis pneumonia, atelectasis, or viral pneumonia?
What is the workup of lower abdominal pain in a 20-year-old?
Could the patient's prior medication (L-asparaginase) have caused deep venous thrombosis?
What is the incubation period for Hepatitis A?
What should I know about neonatal sepsis?
Would the use of nitric oxide in this cardiac patient be beneficial?
The current level of vancomycin is off, how do I adjust it?
What do I need to know about thrombocytopenia?
When do you switch from baby formula to childhood formula in a gastrostomy tube?
How do I manage status asthmaticus?
What is the usual presentation of rheumatic fever?
In a clinical presentation how would influenza compare to other viruses?
What is the general treatment for an asthma exacerbation? If a patient is resistant to normal treatment, what are other options?
What is happening on a physiologic level with this cardiac patient whose ductus arteriosus is not closing?
How long do I administer antibiotics?
A patient has fever and seizures. There's no source for the fever. Should I do a spinal tap?
How do you manage new onset diabetic ketoacidosis?
What are the causes of metabolic acidosis in newborns?
Are there studies about the treatment of migraine headaches in children?
What are the components of Larson's Syndrome?
What are outcomes of a patient with ectopia cordis?
What are some general facts on inflammatory bowel disease?
Should I try and transfuse this baby?
What are traits and more specifics of Williams syndrome?
Do we do a leukapheresis for a white count of 300,000?
There is a publication saying that ibuprofen is linked to Reye's Syndrome. Is this misinformation?
What is involved in this experimental treatment of a gastrointestinal disease?
How do I manage this asthmatic?
Drug dosing question - Amphotericin - used a different formulation in past, now new formulation.
Can burning incense bring lead into the environment of the home?
How do I adjust the ventilator based on blood gas values?
How many cubic centimeters of Tylenol and Motrin do I give this child?
What are the presenting symptoms and treatment of Kawasaki's Disease?
What dosage of Miralax does this patient need?  They are constipated
How do you test reflexes?
A newsletter says ibuprofen is linked to Reye's Syndrome. Is this misinformation?
What do I need to know about cytomegalovirus infections?
The mother of a patient wanted some information on eclampsia.
Is this patient allergic to Zofran?
What is the differential diagnosis for acidosis?
What liver function tests should we do?
What is general information about sickle cell disease?
Is this eczema in the diaper area?
What are the fetal effects of maternal von Willebrand disease?
What dose of heparin does this patient need?
What dosage of Timentin does this child need?
What dose of Periactin and Atarax does this patient need?
Did this patient have a seizure?
What is the general approach to metabolic disorders?
What dosage of antibiotic is needed?
What are the guidelines for phototherapy in premature babies?
What malignancies and gene defects are associated with neurofibromatosis?
What do I need to know about the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone?
What do I treat contact dermatitis with? (implied drug treatment)
When do you hear ventricular septal defect heart murmurs?
A patient has neonatal testicular torsion. How much damage is there to the other testicle?
Does this patient who is vomiting need to be seen right away?
Why does this infant have hyponatremia? (messed up sodium levels, low)
Is this small lesion a case of nummular eczema?
Mom's hepatitis B status is unknown. What do you do to the newborn?
What is the optimal treatment for a parapneumonic effusion?
What dosage and frequency does the hepatitis A vaccine require?
Should I use subcutaneous epinephrine for this asthmatic 2-year-old with croup?
How do I find a journal article about failure to thrive?
I need some information on Henoch-Schoenlein Purpura.
How do I handle the parents of a 9-month-old who is not gaining weight the way he should in the past month? Mom is breast feeding.
What is Williams Syndrome?
Is this girl with synophrys (one continuous eyebrow) a childhood anomaly or Cornelia de Lange syndrome?
What are pineal brain tumors?
What is the dose of octreotide?
What general information do I need to know about methanol poisoning?
How do I do a paracentesis?
Blood gas values are back. Should we change the ventilator settings?
Is a chest x-ray on this patient needed?
Child with eczema. Is this specific procedure steroidal?
How does a possible cleft lip contribute to feeding problems?
What are the clinical features of scleroderma?
What is the work-up for urinary tract infections?
Is there any information for parents regarding toileting refusal?
What is the differential diagnosis of fatigue?
Can a heart transplant patient have Sudafed?
What is the dose of medication for a child with asthma?
In regards to perinatal asphyxiation, when is it acceptable for the parents to decide when to withdraw support? How do we talk with the parents?
What is the dose of Lasix?
Should we treat this wheezing with albuterol?
What is the differential diagnosis and general information for chronic granulomatous disease?
Can wheezing occur in pulmonary edema?
How do you manage this neuroblastoma?
What is the etiology for a child with a limp?
What are the concentrations of all the iron preparations?
What is the differential diagnosis of a patient with constant wetting and pyelonephritis?
Where is an article on asthma management?
A patient with back pain, fever, abdominal pain, dysuria - should I do the complete blood count with differential before or after I get a urinalysis?
What does Nipride do?
Which antibiotics should I use for treatment?
What is the equation for glucose per kilogram per minute for intravenous infusion?
How do I diagnosis congenital adrenal hyperplasia?
This patient has abdominal distension with a huge left shift.  Is it because of a urinary, blood, or some other infection?
What are the recommended laboratory tests when using griseofulvin?
What dosage of piperacillin is needed?
What can we mix octreotide in? How well can we concentrate it?
What is the dose of steroids for a 2-year-old who is wheezing?
Where is a patient handout on poison ivy?
Is cow's milk a risk for mad cow disease? (moving to Lebanon)
How do I treat depression?
How do I manage fluids for kids with heart disease?
What are methods to improve fluid excretion with patient on peritoneal dialysis?
What do I need to know about hypoplastic left heart?
What are the structure and physiology of heart malformations?
What is this protein allergy in breast feeding?
What general information should I know about cholestatic jaundice?
What are the side effects of doxycycline?
Should we release this patient? Is he a danger to himself or others?
What is the follow-up needed for a small head circumference?
What are the practice parameters for this patient with elevated bilirubin?
What is the lab work-up for gynecomastia?
What are the recommended immunizations for travel in Mexico?
How do I use terbutaline nebulizers for asthma?
How do you treat a Tylenol overdose?
What laboratory studies do we do to work up a new leukemia patient?
What is the treatment for chondrodysplasia punctata?
What is the differential diagnosis for lymphocytosis in a new liver transplant patient?
If a child receives his/her pneumococcal vaccine when over a year old, how many more doses are needed?
Iron ingestion - borderline.  Needed to know more about how to treat?
How do we manage this patient's blood pressure?
What dosage of medication should I give the mother of my patient who has a  herpes cold sore on her lip?
What is a normal prothrombin time value for a 3-day-old?
What is the dose of Toradol?
What do I need to know about neurogenic pulmonary edema?
What is the conversion for methadone?  I want to stop using morphine and use methadone instead.
What are the side effects of the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine?
How will cares change based on cares conference?
This child is early for their scheduled immunization.  Can they still receive it?  Is it safe?
What does Bumex do?
What are the causes of a patient with Streptococcal sore throat who refuses to move his neck?
How many months apart should the patient receive Prevnar shots (doses)?
Is this oral herpes in the mouth or something else?
Is this rash eczema?
What is the differential diagnosis for elevated direct bilirubin?
What is the dose of Lasix?
After how many days can you stop using topical treatment for ringworm?
What hepatitis serology do you get in international adopted child?
What dosage of Amicar is needed?
Why should a 13-year-old be suffering from respiratory distress secondary to croup?
What medications should be taken for these migraines?
What is the significance of sterile pyuria in a 2-year-old?
What is the proper method of doing peritoneal dialysis for this patient?
How do I manage a child who is having more apneic spells?
A patient has Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, urosepsis and is hypotensive despite many fluid boluses. What should I do?
What is Prader-Willi syndrome?
What is the workup and treatment of an elevated white count and no other symptoms?
Do we need to do a spinal tap to rule out meningitis?
Does any attending have experience with ingestion of glass ornament fragments?
Is endometriosis in the mother causing abdominal pain in a 12-year-old girl who is premenstrual?
What are the side effects of the chicken pox vaccine?
What is the outcome and treatment of nephrotic syndrome in children?
What is the dose of acyclovir (for chicken pox)?
Can you get rabies from a woodchuck?
How high is too high for a fever that is not coming down?  When do I send them to the ER?
How do I do a Ballard scoring exam on a newborn?
How do I change the ventilator on this infant with high PCO2?
What is general information about bilateral optic neuritis?
What is the dose of Tamiflu (new medication, liquid form)?
What is bronchiolitis?
Liver getting bigger and heart problems. Should we give him Lasix or not?
Inhalation injury. At what level of carboxyhemoglobin do you use hyperbaric oxygen?
Does a child who cannot walk need to come back to the emergency room?
What is the etiology and associated findings of gastroschisis?
What dose of Benadryl and Phenergan does this patient need?
What kind of rash is this?
What dose of Augmentin does this patient need?
What are some ways to treat congenital adrenal hyperplasia?
How old do patients have to be in order to take Amantadine?
What do we monitor in respiratory-syncytial-virus patients?
What is dose of Dilaudid, a narcotic?
What dose of Gentamicin should this baby have?
What is this unusual rash?
What is the pathway of the enzymes that is making this congenital adrenal hyperplasia abnormal?
Do we need to do a work-up on this patient with a pacemaker who is having severe chest pains?
How do I get my computer working again?  I can't do any prescriptions, et cetera.
In failure to thrive cases, what is the difference between inadequate height and inadequate weight?
What dose of vitamin E does this patient need?
What are the respiratory complications of Prader-Willi syndrome?
This child received most of their immunizations in Russia.  Do they still need Haemophilus influenza b?  Until what age do you give Haemophilus influenza b?
What are the glucose protocols for this infant?
Does this child really need a morphine drip?
When can we use this new gastrostomy tube for this patient with seizures?
What kind of iron studies does a patient need who is receiving daily iron therapy?
Is this respiratory plan for an extubated child okay?
This patient is on a ketogenic diet.  What do we do for an intravenous infusion when she goes in for surgery?
What general information do I need to know for newborn exams?
What is the dose for this bacterial endocarditis prophylactic antibiotic?
How do I order prescriptions using the computer?
What dose of cefazolin does this patient need?
What are the possible causes of pleural effusion?
What are the side effects of Zoloft?
What dosage of Flagyl is needed?
Is this girl normal early puberty or true precocious puberty?
How long do I administer antibiotics?
Are there appropriate accommodations for breast feeding in the workplace?
How does aspirin taken by the mother affect the baby?
A child was admitted with glomerulonephritis. What is the association between Streptococcal infection and kidney disease?
Which incubation drugs and what doses does this patient need?
How do I diagnosis myelodysplastic syndrome?
Do we have to do antiviral therapy until we receive the results back from the spinal tap?
Is the ductus arteriosus closing on this cardiac patient?
What is general information about neonatal seizures?
What is the meaning of thrombocytosis in a 2-month-old?
Are there articles on definitions of fever?
Whether or not to do a lumbar puncture on a febrile patient who had a seizure?
What is the dose of Dilantin?
What are the causes of facial palsy?
What do I need to know about neurogenic bowel?
What is the schedule for pneumococcal vaccine for a high-risk patient who is 4?
What is the cause of this long term memory loss?
If evaluating a child for shunt malfunction should I refer him on or order a shunt series and head computerized tomogram?
Are there camps for attention-deficit-hyperactivity-disorder children in this area?
What is Vanderwoude syndrome?
What is the etiology of herpangina?
What do lichen sclerosis and atrophicus look like?
How is Concerta like Ritalin?
What is the normal hemoglobin value?
Why is there desaturation in this hypoplastic left heart when all other signs are normal?
What is some general information about methadone?
What is general information about peritoneal dialysis?
How much Delsym cough syrup do I give?
What side effects from chemotherapy should I look for?
What is the duration of breast feeding?
What antibiotic do I use for this infection?
What dose of Carafate is needed?
What is the usual presentation of types of vasculitis?
What is the usual presentation of Henoch-Schoenlein Purpura?
What is the dose of captopril?
Does this child with physical anomalies have a syndrome or not?
What is the normal cerebrospinal fluid?
What antibiotic prophylaxis should be used on this patient with cardiac asplenia syndrome?
Which medication is causing neutropenia in this baby?
If another child at this patient's daycare is in the pediatric intensive care unit with meningitis, what steps should be taken to prevent this patient from being infected? (Do they need prophylaxis?)
What is the duration of hemangiomas?
What is the dose of propranolol?
What do you watch for with a gastroschisis patient?
What dose of famotidine does this child need?
What is the dose of fluoride?
Congenital lung abnormality found in utero. What is the risk for the future?
What is general information about DiGeorge Syndrome, for the family?
What precautions should be taken for children on long term aspirin treatment?
What are the clinical signs of neonatal myasthenia gravis?
Which immunization should I give and when? (Prevnar, pneumococcal vaccine)
How do I manage this genetic syndrome?
What are the transfusion guidelines?
Should we continue chemotherapy on this patient?
Should we restart prostaglandins on this infant? His ductus arteriosus is not closing.
What are symptoms of brown recluse and black widow spider bites versus stings from other bugs?
What dose of Ancef does this patient need?
What is general information about varicella (chicken pox)?
What tests do we need to do to confirm that this is achalasia?
What dose of Polytrim (frequency and number of drops) does this patient need?
Where is a place for adult attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in downtown Chicago?
What is the drug dosing for amoxicillin?
What dosage of antibiotic is needed?
How do you treat myelodysplastic syndrome?
How to best treat a patient with the combination of atrial septal defect and bronchopulmonary dysplasia?
What dosage of Biaxin do I give this child?
What is the half-life of this drug I want to use on a post operative heart patient?
What dose of vancomycin does this patient need?
What dose of epinephrine drip does this patient need?
What is the differential diagnosis and how do you treat gynecomastia?
What are the effects of methamphetamine exposure in the prenatal period?
What level of antibiotic should I use for enterococcus bacteremia?
What dosage of this antibiotic does this patient need?
Can intravenous immunoglobulin cause oxygen desaturation of the blood?
Can the family take this infant to high altitudes while traveling?
What are the signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism?
How do I heparinize this patient?
What should I know about infantile spasms?
What should I know about partial complex seizures?
What kind of penicillin do they give here in clinic for intramuscular injection?
How common are the secondary bacterial infections you can get with chickenpox?
What is general information about evaluation of an international adopted child (China)?
A child was scratched by a stray cat. Mom is concerned about rabies. What shots does she need and where on the body does she receive them?
Should I give a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine to a 15-month-old who has had only one dose early on in life?
A patient has seizures, head bleed and coma. What kind of anti-seizure medication should I use?
How should this case of neonatal herpes be treated? With acyclovir?
How do we do this vecuronium drip?
What percentage of sebaceous nevi are associated with basal cell carcinoma?
Regarding a drug dosing schedule, how frequently should this drug be given?
Is this a pyogenic granuloma?
What are the side effects of Reglan?
What dose of ranitidine should this patient receive?
Is this Wiscott-Aldridge Syndrome?
What should we do with this patient that is behind on his vaccine-dosing schedule?
How do you interpret these photoscreening pictures?
How do I manage this acetaminophen overdose? What is the toxicity?
What is the dose of Ceftin?
What symptoms might this patient have? (Henoch-Schoenlein Purpura)
What is the antibiotic coverage for Staphylococcus aureus lung abscess?
At what age do children need further tests after the urinary tract infection has been treated?
What dose of ceftriaxone does this patient need?
What is the significance of yeast in a trachea aspirate?
A child with rash and fever - what does she have?
How do I load a patient with Dilantin who has a low Dilantin level?
What is the absorption rate of clonidine patch over time?
What are sources of vitamin B12 requirement in vegetarian children?
What dosage of ceftriaxone does this child need?
How do you do a circumcision?
Is the rash on this child viral?
Expressive language delay: what's normal, what age?
What was on the film and how did it relate to a diagnosis of pneumonia?
What dose of cryoprecipitate is needed?
How does the computerized tomographic scan look for this child? (Child was seizing.)
Low platelet count. Is this idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura or something else?
What is this duplication of chromosome Number 9?
What are the perils of scuba diving?
How do we treat these hallucinations?
What is the dose of Tamiflu?
What dose of bicarbonate does this patient need?
This patient has been on long term prophylaxis. How long should he remain? How do I get him off?
What is the best way to treat acute respiratory distress in this child?
What are the findings for herpes infection in the newborn?
What is amantadine dosing?
What is serum sickness and what are the causes?
Which diarrhea drugs (and what doses) are recommended for travel in Mexico?
What are the possible causes of this child's leg pain and limp?
Immunoglobulins were drawn in the past. The immunoglobulin A level is low. What should I do?
When can we discharge this premature baby?
Is it okay to breast feed while taking atenolol and propranolol?
What is the diagnosis and treatment for multiple sclerosis?
What are the guidelines for tuberculin skin test interpretation?
How do I get American Academy of Pediatrics patient handouts off the computer?
What is general information about meningomyelocele, including outcome and what to watch for with the patient?
What is the dosage for Fer-In-Sol (iron)?
Does this infant have a milk allergy? (explosive stools since put on cow's milk formula)
What are the complications of nasal fractures?
What dose of antibiotic does this child need for otitis media?
What dosage of gentamicin is needed?
Do I need to change the vent setting on this infant who has developed an abnormal blood gas?
What is the frequency for Bactroban (topical antibiotic)?
Is this redness on the penis and pain with urination balanitis or a urinary tract infection?
What are the side effects of ondansetron?
What should I know about twin-twin transfusion?
What is the etiology of Moyamoya disease?
What dose of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (GCSF) does this patient need?
Should I use Comvax for an older child who is behind in immunizations?
How do I treat head lice in a patient under 1 year?
What is the urological surgery technique?
What is the dose of erythromycin?
What dosage does this child need for gentamicin and Flagyl?
How do we use the paralyzing agent in this intravenous infusion?
How fast should we give intravenous fluids to this leukemic patient?
A child has vaginal discharge, positive for clue cells and whiff test, bacterial vaginosis. She has bruising which she says is from sledding. Has she been sexually abused?
What is the mechanism of hypertension in coarctation of the aorta?
What are the adult doses of antibiotics?
How do I manage a patient who had an abnormal lab value?
What is general information about Guillain-Barre, including diagnosis and management?
Do we immobilize pulmonary arteries at this institution?  Do we do this procedure?  (Resident mentioned sarcoma.)
Where do I go to work up a jaw mass?
What should I know about herpes in neonates?
What do I need to know about heart lesions and other heart conditions?
What dosage of eutectic mixture of local anesthetics (EMLA) cream does this patient need?
Is this a drug rash from amoxicillin?
Giardia test came back positive. What are the treatment options?
What signs do I look for when monitoring diabetic ketoacidosis?
What is the appropriate dose for Stimate for patient with von Willebrand disease?
What are the immunizations required by the State of Iowa?
Are these mild gross motor delay and dysmorphic features Angelman or Prader-Willi syndromes?
What are the manifestations of tyrosinemia syndrome?
What is unusual about this section of the shoulder blade x-ray? Or is it normal?
What are the specifics for treatment of Bacille Calmette-Guerin tuberculosis?
How do we bolus a patient (with Heparin) to get partial thromboplastin time levels up?
What causes unilateral nosebleeds?
What is WestSoy formula?
How do we best manage this brain injury which is increasing in pressure?
What medication (and dose) do you need for a Factor IX deficiency?
Should we start this patient on steroids or not?
Is it okay to give Benadryl to a patient with asthma?
How is it best to broach the withdrawing of treatment (best way to talk to the families, et cetera)?
Does this baby have Cri du Chat Syndrome?
What is the importance of left-atrial pressure in post-cardiac surgery patients? How do you manage these patients?
What criteria do we need to meet in order to get human-leukocyte-antigen (HLA) matched platelets for this patient?
Is this level of theophylline toxic?
Does this patient need a lactation consult?
What is the dose of propranolol?
What dose of Fer-in-sol should this patient have?
What dose of multivitamin (ADEK) does this patient need?
How do we sedate this child when the normal way didn't work?
What is Wegener's granulomatosis?
What is the dose of Ancef?
Is this anemia caused by iron deficiency? What tests do we do to find out?
Does amoxicillin come in 875-milligram tablets?
How do you work up pseudocholinesterase deficiency?
When do you wean a patient from a ventilator?
Can a mom who is breast feeding have Sudafed or another cold medication?
What is the dose of griseofulvin?
What is Kenny syndrome?
How do we treat this new presentation of leukemia?
What is general information about brain tumors in children?
meningomyelocele - outcome, treatment, and general overview of the problem.
Can insurance companies pay for this pneumococcal vaccine?
What is the bolused dose of morphine for a child who was on a drip?
How does lupus in the mother affect the baby?
A patient has had a liver transplant. What antibiotics do I use for fever and liver failure symptoms?
What is the surfactant dose for this infant?
How do you treat an Escherichia coli urinary tract infection?
Are there differences in blood levels between the generic and the brand name of Tegretol?
How do I dose gentamicin orally?
In a child with a fever, can you have elevated neutrophil count in influenza?
What types of surgical procedures and treatments would you use on these patients with heart abnormalities? (tricuspid atresia and hypoplastic left heart)
Is gestational diabetes treated the same as type 1 diabetes?  (the question is for the treatment of the baby)
Mom is breast feeding a 21-month-old up to 4 times a day and wants to wean. Is there anything she can eat to make her breast milk taste bad?
Is the blood in this patient's mouth coming from the stomach?
What is the differential diagnosis of cyanosis?
What is the antibiotic dosing for a patient with fever and neutropenia?
Were the immunizations complete?
What concentration of sodium chloride does a tablet contain?
Should I treat minimal reflux with antacids or not?
Liver getting bigger and heart problems. Was he in heart failure or not?
What are the risks when you take out umbilical lines?
What is Peutz-Jegher's Syndrome?
What is the antibiotic dose?
What is the etiology of Klebsiella pneumonia?
What is the most common etiology of hypothyroidism in a teenager?
A patient has pyelonephritis. Does he/she need further evaluation?
How safe is it to give Prilosec to a 3-year-old? Any studies?
What is general information about extreme hypoxic injury?
Does this child have hypospadias?
When do I discharge this baby with jaundice?
This patient with a gastrostomy tube is bleeding in the mouth.  How should we treat this?
What are the side effects on the liver of a sedative I want to give? The child has ingested Tylenol and is combative.
What is cysticercosis?
What is the latest information about the treatment of adolescent migraines?
What are we going to do for this child with cellulitis?
Does this child who's having an asthma attack need to come to the emergency room?
What are the causes of a white cell count of 100,000?
What are the typical abnormalities for trisomy 18?
What dosage of gentamicin is needed?
What is Fanconi's Syndrome?
What is the work-up of an adolescent female with abdominal pain?
What is the dose for this drip?
What are the causes of Erb's Palsy?
Is this abnormal? One kidney seems larger than the other on this newborn.  Could this be associated with hypospadias?
Does Wegener's granulomatosis have neurological complications?
How should the ventilator settings be changed?
Why does he drop his oxygen saturations while he eats? Is it reflux?
What is hemolytic uremic syndrome?
Is this level of Tylenol ingestion toxic?
What is the treatment for hemangiomas?
What is the significance of the Lachmann test?
What is the differential diagnosis and treatment for this child with encephalopathy and hepatitis?
Fever of unknown origin and seizure. Should I do a lumbar puncture right away or wait for blood work?
What dose of Keflex does this patient need?
What is Walker-Warburg syndrome?
Is the patient getting nutrition through this intravenous line? What liver tests do I do to find out?
Is this patient in danger of cardiac tamponade? They have an arrhythmia.
Where can I find patient information on Hand, Foot and Mouth Disease?
What dose of cimetidine does this patient need?
What is the drug dosage for amoxicillin?
How should this patient with respiratory distress and spina bifida be treated?
What is the dose of iron in Poly-Vi-Sol?
What do I need to know about cytomegalovirus infections?
Do you need antibiotics after a dog bite? Which antibiotics would you use?
What dosage of gentamicin and Benadryl does this patient need?
What dosage of oral Celestone is needed?
What is the caffeine dose for spinal headache?
A patient has left lower quadrant pain and left flank pain. Urinalysis is negative. Significant pain during exam. Should I do a bimanual exam or an ultrasound to rule out ovarian problems?
How do you manage tumor lysis syndrome?
What can I find out about hemolytic uremic syndrome?
A child had taken Claritin 6 months ago, had medicine left over.  Is it OK to take the medication now? Is the dose the same?
Do Asian patients have children who have more problems with jaundice?
What dose of antibiotic does this patient need?
How should I change the gentamicin levels?
What are the criteria for a head computerized tomogram?
What is the dose of propranolol?
What should be monitored for this kid that swallowed crack cocaine?
Patient had taken an over-the-counter analgesic. It's supposed to help urinary tract infections. The urine is orange. What is the medication?
What are the side effects of the chemotherapy drugs they are using for this neuroblastoma patient?
What is the prognosis for this premature baby with cardiac disease?
Where is a picture of a plantar wart?
What is this rash?
What is the dose of fentanyl?
What are the signs, symptoms and course of Guillain-Barre syndrome?
What are the transfusion guidelines?
What is the normal value of thyroid stimulating hormone?
What antibiotic should be given for this ear infection and sepsis?
How long do we use the oral secretion medication for this seizure patient?
What is the prognosis of osteosarcoma?
How does myotonic dystrophy present in newborns (general information)?
What dose of Adderall does this large 12-year-old need?
What do I need to know about allergic colitis?
What is causing this rash?
What dosage of Lotensin does this two-year-old need?
What dose of Dextran does this child need?
Is this molluscum contagiosum a case of the chicken pox?
What is the etiology of anion gap acidosis?
What are the laws regarding a 13-year-old who is pregnant?
What is the source of this right knee pain?
How do I manage this patient with respiratory syncytial virus?
What bolus dose of propranolol does this infant need?
How long is mononucleosis contagious?
What is associated with greater toxicity/morbidity: to increase pressures on the ventilators or to settle for a higher fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2)?
How do I manage chronic lung disease?
Which antibiotics do I need for this patient?
What are the most likely causes for a parapneumonic effusion?
What are the alkaline phosphatase serum levels for different ages?
Should we start this child on antibiotics?
How are the newer medications for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) being used?
What is the treatment of tyrosinemia syndrome?
What dosage of aqueous vasopressin is needed?
How do I treat herpes zoster (shingles)?
What is the concentration of Tylenol #3 in liquid preparation?
How do we do ventilatory management for this 8-month-old with respiratory distress?
We're starting this patient on Klonopin (clonazepam).  Patient has intractable seizures.  What dose do we need/ how should we start?
How do I take care of a circumcision that isn't healing properly?
Can RespiGam cause a fever?
What is the differential diagnosis for this rash?
What are recommendations for treatment of the influenza virus?
How do I manage bacterial meningitis?
What dose of ursodiol does this patient need?
What laboratory tests do we need to do for rhabdomyolysis?
How do you administer the new meningococcal vaccine?
What is the drug dosing for phenobarbital?
How do you sedate a child with Down Syndrome?
What is the differential diagnosis, treatment, et cetera for Chediak-Higashi Syndrome?
What does depression look like?
Which bacterial endocarditis prophylactic antibiotics should I use?
What is the drug dosing of this respiratory medication?
Should we close this dog bite wound?
What is the steroid treatment for poison ivy?
Do I need to prophylax my patient? Patient is on chemotherapy and  mother developed a herpes cold sore on her lip overnight.
How is a heart transplant done? What are the risks for atrial arrhythmias? Ventricular arrhythmias?
What are the normal procedures for low birth weight?  Just general information wanted.
What drug can best treat a certain bacterial infection?
What is a normal partial thromboplastin time for a 3-day-old?
What is the average length of time between the Kasai procedure and liver transplant in a patient with biliary atresia?
What/how should the ventilator management be done for this patient who has had heart surgery?
How do I manage Stevens-Johnson  Syndrome?
A patient has an abdominal mass. What kind of cancer is it?
Email question from study physician:  "A question we've had difficulty finding the right answer for: What is the normal alkaline phosphatase value for a 10-year-old girl?"
Is there a cure for interstitial cystitis?  I have a friend who has tried everything.
What is Sansert?
Daughter of 86-year-old woman called for Flexeril prescription for her mother's "contractures" and wanted it in liquid form.  Doctor X said, "Flexeril doesn't come as a liquid does it?"
40-year-old man drinks 12-15 beers per week.  Has megaloblastic cells but is not anemic.  Does he need any other laboratory work?
I had a 41-year-old obstetric patient last week.  "How many weeks along should you do an amniocentesis?"
49-year-old female with burning metallic taste in mouth for two weeks.  What is the etiology of this metallic taste?
I have to look up thyroid nodules.  So the question is how to work up thyroid nodules.
62-year-old woman, 2 years on Fosamax and has a declining bone mass (T-score now about -3.7).  I (investigator) said, "So, the question is why?"  She (study physician) said, "Why and what to do about it?"
77-year-old female.  On Norvasc, but insurance will only pay for verapamil, nifedipine, or Plendil.  What is the dose of Plendil?
2-year-old with otitis media.  What is the dose of Augmentin?  Then he remembered she was allergic to penicillin and the question became, "What is the dose of Biaxin?"
87-year-old female with vertigo for two to three weeks.  Possibly viral.  How long should I expect the symptoms to last before referring or checking a magnetic resonance imaging?
I had a child with encopresis.  The treatment of encopresis was the question.
What do you do for a painful bump on the heel where the Achilles tendon inserts ("pump bump")?
Seventeen-year-old girl going to Haiti.  The question is whether she should get Hepatitis A immunoglobulin versus Hepatitis A vaccine.  How long is Hepatitis A good for?
86-year-old with a femur fracture.  Does deep-vein-thrombosis prophylaxis depend on the operative management, for example, pin versus prosthesis versus no surgery?
72-year-old female.  How do you figure out restrictive lung disease in a patient with a normal chest x-ray?  What's the workup?
What is the equivalent dose of Synthroid for someone on Armour Thyroid 180 milligrams per day?
Woman in her 30's from China had a gallbladder polyp discovered there, 7 millimeters.  She came asking for a followup ultrasound.  I told her I wasn't sure that was necessary, but later I looked it up on a medical Web site to see if she needed a cholecystectomy or followup.
"Von Willebrand's is autosomal dominant but what is the penetrance?"
40-year-old man with diabetes.  He said, "I'm feeling dizzy and have a headache.  Do you think it could be my medicine?"  But it wasn't his medication.  My (physician's) question was, "What is causing the dizziness?"
Can a mother force her 17-year-old daughter to have a Depo-Provera shot for contraception?  I should know the answer but I don't.
This is more of a psychosocial or medical-legal question.  Nine-month-old boy in foster care with recurrent wheezing.  Visits grandparents every 2 weeks for 1-2 hours.  In two days they are going to court and want my recommendation.  The wheezing is aggravated after a visit to the smoking grandparents.  Most books don't say whether it's really passive smoking or if you just don't smoke when the child is there, is that OK?
Nurse practitioner asked the study physician about a 9-month old girl:  "Is this unilateral laterothoracic exanthem?"
What are criteria for admission for respiratory syncytial virus in a 2-week old?  How do they differ from criteria for older infants (ie, one to two months)?
"When we do a sigmoidoscopy, when can we say it was a good one?"  Certainly 60 centimeters is good and probably 45 or 50 but what about 30 or 35?
Do Coumadin and Augmentin interact?
35-year-old man, blood in the urine, very smelly urine, frequency and dysuria.  I thought probably prostatitis.  Got a urinalysis yesterday and started Levoquin because it was late in the day.  But today his urinalysis came back negative and he has a dry cough, but his chest x-ray is also negative.  "What am I gonna do?  Treat that?"
50-year-old female with recurrent hot tub folliculitis.  "Is there anything you can do to prevent that?"
6-month-old term delivery, developing normally except question of hypertonicity of lower extremities with some scissoring, which is now more definite.  "Should I do any workup and if so should it be a magnetic resonance imaging or a computerized tomography or what?"
Regarding a two-month-old I referred to a tertiary center with a positive blood culture, the spinal fluid had 4 cells in tube number 2 and 2 cells in tube number 3.  "I think that's within acceptable limits, let's see."
15-month-old born prematurely with Potter's syndrome.  Now has poorly functioning kidneys.  "I don't know if the failure to thrive is secondary to the foster mother or the renal problems."
"Should a patient who took too much amitriptyline get bicarbonate and if so what are the criteria for giving it?  How bad does the overdose have to be before giving bicarbonate?"
The physician showed me the lipid panel on a 60-year-old woman.  Total cholesterol about 250, triglycerides about 600, high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol 36, low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol 89.  "Which one to start with:  Lipitor or gemfibrozil?  But my main question is if there is any evidence that omega-3 fatty acids (fish oil) are helpful."
Nine-month-old girl with lipomeningomyelocele, not classic meningomyelocele.  The question that arose was how soon will she retether her cord.
It's unlikely to get streptococcal sore throat in very young children.  At what age would you do a step test?  Would it make a difference if a family member has documented streptococcal sore throat?  How young would you go if you do have a family member (sibling) with streptococcal sore throat?  For example, would you do it in a one-year old?
44-year-old lady with a rash in the perineum.  The question was whether it was bad yeast or herpes.
What do you do for the PSA (prostate-specific antigen)?
31-year-old woman is breast feeding, complains of being tired and has a stomatitis with aphthous ulcers in her mouth.  The question is whether tetracycline crosses into the breast milk.
I have a lot of questions about drug safety in pregnancy.
15-year-old girl with post-influenza pneumonia.  What should you treat with?
This morning I saw a 65-year-old woman with diabetes, hypertension, elevated lipids, and coronary disease.  She has chronic low back pain, two surgeries, can hardly move.  I referred her to a neurosurgeon who talked about implanting some sort of nerve stimulator.  Not a transcutaneous nerve stimulator, but something implanted.  I (investigator) asked him what the question is.  He said, "What is that thing?  What are its indications?"
I had a guy, 37-years-old who came in with bloody diarrhea, which changed to rectal bleeding so we admitted him.  He was scoped and turned out to have Escherichia coli O157:H7.  We started Cipro before the culture came back and I asked the gastroenterologist about whether we should stop the Cipro because of the increased risk of hemolytic uremic syndrome if you treat.
What is the best approach in a 60-year-old woman with complaints of loss of libido?
Phone call.  Patient wants a refill of Niaspan.  Do I need to check a liver profile?
13-year-old girl here for sports physical.  Has a history of concussion (saw this when looking at chart before entering the room).  "I often have to review the concussion rules.  I have them in my file."
"Hypothyroid patient seen yesterday.  I thought antithyroglobulin was for Graves and thyroid peroxidase was for Hashimoto's."  I (investigator) prompted, "So the question was whether you were remembering this right?" And she said yes.
6-year-old boy with enuresis.  Should you treat and if so what should you do?
4-year-old girl with an ear infection last week, treated with Augmentin.  Doctor X saw her yesterday and noted marked tenderness of the mastoid.  He (study physician) started looking in the index of a reference and I (investigator) asked him what the question was.  He said, "What imaging study would be indicated?"
6-month-old boy involved in a motor vehicle accident where the air bag went off approximately three weeks ago.  Could the cough be caused by the air bag deployment?
14-year-old with asthma.  Mom asked about Advair, saw it on TV.  "I've never prescribed it before.  I've not used it.  This is more for prevention isn't it?"
50-year-old white female.  How concerning a risk factor is an elevated C-reactive protein?
I had another lady with a multinodular goiter, diagnosed on ultrasound.  They recommended a repeat ultrasound in 6 months, which we did recently and now they are reporting a solid nodule in the lower left lobe, but they said it was smaller than it was previously, but they did not report it on the previous ultrasound, so, "now what do I do with her?"
40-year-old woman with Type 1 diabetes and depression.  I (investigator) saw her (physician) looking in a reference.  "I'm just thinking of this person with horrible depression -- what I could add in."
52-year-old man.  "In patients with chronic pancreatitis and pain, do enzyme supplements help with the pain or just the steatorrhea?"
"Pertussis.  I had to look up whether or not we have to treat the people who are exposed and whether to use erythromycin.
Phone call to nurse.  The nurse asked the physician what the endocarditis prophylaxis was for a 48-year-old woman with a history of endocarditis getting dental work.
I'm going to ask you (investigator).  Is that legal?  Which antibiotic would you use for an infected toe with poor circulation?
This morning we looked up Lisch nodules.  I (investigator) asked him what the question was.  He said he wanted to check to see what other stigmata of neurofibromatosis we should check for.
Phone call from mother of one-year-old girl with fever of 102.  "Can we mix Tylenol and ibuprofen in kids?" (Meaning, can you alternate acetaminophen and ibuprofen for fever?)
College student.  Suicide attempt by taking 50 Excedrin Migraine and 50 Ibuprofen.  Excedrin migraine.  Does it have Tylenol in it?
Two-year-old with constipation and overflow diarrhea, now having explosive stools on Miralax.  "How to know if he's cleaned out and we're giving too much Miralax versus still having overflow diarrhea?"
45-year-old woman.  With chronic lung disease, there have been studies indicating the need to give antibiotics if there is green or yellow phlegm.  But I have not seen . . . .  My question is what about the nonsmoker and non-chronic-lung-disease patient.
I had a question with this man but to be honest I'm not going to look it up.  He had a deep-vein thrombosis two weeks ago.  I've been holding him off work.  I'm going to let him go back now.
24-year-old woman with chronic hepatitis B and a seizure disorder and elevated alanine aminotransferase.  Does a patient with chronic hepatitis B need a liver biopsy?  Would you do anything anyway?  There is no treatment like there is with hepatitis C, is there?
A patient of somebody else.  Simple question.  Came in with a huge international normalized ratio (prothrombin time).  They decreased his Coumadin one week prior.  He was getting too much thyroid.  Free thyroxine was high.  I don't know if that can affect the Coumadin.
Man in his late 40's with bad Crohn's disease.  Came in with pyoderma gangrenosum.  We didn't know how to treat him.
In the context of Hispanic or Vietnamese non-English speakers, can you simply translate the Folstein Mini Mental State Exam or are there cultural differences that would also make a difference?
I think below age 60 you're not supposed to treat atrial fibrillation with Coumadin but I'm not sure that's right.
48-year-old woman with cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, negative chest x-ray, normal pulse oximetry, now today has worse peak flows on prednisone, was 270, now 200.  "What is causing this?"
I (investigator) caught the study physician looking at a reference.  I asked what the question was and he said he was looking up the different concentrations of liquid ibuprofen.
25-year-old male with severe headaches and constipation.  Is Sansert causing the constipation?
What is the treatment for Helicobacter pylori in a 70-year-old patient with dyspepsia?
I did have a question over the weekend, about a kid seen in the emergency room.  Eight-year-old boy on Ritalin LA for attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder, took 5 to 10 pills, so a moderate overdose, not a severe overdose.  "Does anybody really know when it is not effective to induce vomiting anymore?
"Is there a familial high thyroid-stimulating hormone syndrome where the thyroxine and triiodothyronine are normal?"
Eight-year-old boy with recurrent abdominal pain.  I called Doctor X (pediatric gastroenterologist) and said, "OK, what is this?  I don't know what to do."
15-month-old.  At what age should you give a child a pillow?
A boy with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome I will be seeing this afternoon.  I don't know which type.  I need to read about it before I see him.  I (investigator) tried to nail him down about what information he needed and never got a clear answer.  But on the next visit, I asked him again what the question was and he said, "What is it?" meaning, "What is Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome?"
Phone call from 39-year-old woman with depression, on Effexor 150 milligrams once a day.  Still depressed.  My question is how high can I go up on the Effexor.
39-year-old woman with complaints of vaginal discharge and clue cells on wet mount.  I treated her with metronidazole.  She has it back again.  Why did she get it again so soon?  What is the failure rate with metronidazole for bacterial vaginitis?  What are the predisposing factors for bacterial vaginosis?
14-year-old girl with a lump on her thigh.  I looked in an anatomy book.  I just wanted to be sure there was nothing else in there besides the rectus muscle and the quadriceps.
This patient has an ulcer on his foot from peripheral vascular disease, no diabetes.  We have a podiatrist in town who wants to do surgery on this ulcer.  The physician called the vascular surgeon who already knows the patient and said, "With her circulation, do you think that's reasonable?"
66-year-old woman with a Baker's cyst.  How many Baker's cysts are related to deep-vein thrombosis?  How many people with Baker's cysts get deep vein thromboses?
This morning I saw an 8-month-old girl with erythema multiforme.  My question was whether to use steroids.
Has anybody shown that well-child checks are helpful?
A mom is going to have an anencephalic baby.  The question came up about donation of organs.
10-month-old male.  "Does the flu shot have Thimerosal?"
I haven't really seen a patient with congenital hip dysplasia.  How soon do we need to refer them to orthopedics?  Is it a matter of days or weeks?
What antidepressant is best to avoid sexual dysfunction?
"Is there any relation between iron deficiency and thrombocytopenia or could iron deficiency cause the low platelets?  Or could the viral illness have caused the anemia and the low platelets?"
"The only thing I need to look up . . . 12-year-old girl with hepatitis C, for 6 months has been on interferon and ribavirin and in the last two months her enzymes have been essentially normal but on the last test, the enzymes jumped from about 40 to about 400.  Now we have pegylated interferon.  "Do I try pegylated interferon with ribavirin?"
55-year-old man with dyshidrotic eczema.  "What would be the best strength to use for triamcinolone cream?  I'm looking for one with moderate potency."
73-year-old man with benign prostatic hypertrophy.  I wanted to find a generic alpha 1 blocker.
50-year-old woman with cataracts and high cholesterol.  So the question is, can she continue to take Zocor since she has cataracts?  The question is, are cataracts going to happen with EVERYBODY who takes them?
"What is the best radiologic test to order to rule out brain tumor?  Computerized tomography or magnetic resonance imaging?  Do you always want to do the computerized tomography with contrast?
70-year-old man developed a hard lesion at the inferior aspect of his left testicle over the last few days.  What would cause that?
Elderly man.  I had to look up hematospermia.  How much of a workup you have to do?
15-month-old had idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura last spring with a platelet count of 2000.  Initially had some blast forms.  I (investigator) never got a clear idea of what the question was and asked the study physician if the question was "Could this infant have infantile leukemia?"  He said, "Yes and the prognosis."
This is a 2-month-old in for well-child check but when she was a newborn she had blood in her stools.  I called the pediatric GI person at the university.
11-year-old girl.  If someone is sucking on a throat lozenge, does that affect the throat culture or the rapid streptococcal test?
How well does biofeedback work for rectal incontinence?
Since epidural anesthesia can cause low-grade maternal fevers, do we need separate criteria for sepsis workup in infants whose mothers got an epidural?  Separate laboratory and rupture of membrane criteria?
What is the maximum dose of Zoloft?
One-year-old boy.  What immunizations does he need?
A young guy in his late 30's had tinnitus and headaches.  I did a computerized tomography scan and it showed a suprasellar mass pushing on the optic chiasm.  I had to look up where the auditory nerve was in relation to the mass.
Is gentian violet toxic when given for oral thrush?
Does meclizine come as a liquid?
57-year-old woman.  "I'm just looking up olanzapine.  I'm not sure whether I need to taper it.  Because I want to switch her over to Paxil."
Yesterday I saw a 4 year-old girl with trichotillomania.  Mom said, can you use Benadryl?
"If people on statins, who have subjective muscle aching, if they are at higher risk for rhabdomyolysis.  Is it the same type of process?  And have normal creatine kinase of course."
Is there any treatment for geographic tongue?
"What do you do about . . . ?  What about . . . ?  One of my pet peeves . . . .  Do I need to take magnesium for my osteoporosis?"
11-year-old girl with asthma.  I want to wean her off the Serevent (she's using too much) and start her on a steroid inhaler, but I want to use the steroid that's in Advair in case I have to use both a steroid and Serevent (that is, add back the Serevent).  So the question is, what is the steroid that's in Advair.
What is the best test for bone mineral density?
16-year-old girl with chronic abdominal pain.  She's lost 15 pounds in the last several months and they (parents) think she may have a problem with absorption.  The question is, "What's the best way to look for those things?"
"Has anybody ever demonstrated that routine prenatal care in low risk patients improves outcomes?"
35-year-old man.  My question is, "What is the incidence of sexual side effects with clomipramine?"
This is a kid with reactive airway disease.  That's a question.  At what age are pulmonary function tests reliable for the diagnosis of asthma?  How old do you have to be before pulmonary function tests can be done?
39-year-old woman on Paxil for depression and says she's 30% better.  She's complaining of fatigue.  I'm going to switch her to Zoloft, but I'm not sure what the differences in side effects are.
When do we stop doing mammograms?  What age?
Two-week-old girl with bilateral preauricular pits and briefly a white discharge from them.  So I looked at the books.  I (investigator) said, "What was the question."  He said, "What do I do with those? Do I just leave them alone?  Do I refer?  Do I need to do anything?"
15 year-old girl had a portacath placed three weeks ago.  Wound is draining, red, dehiscing, I can almost see the portacath.  What to do with this?
"One thing I did look up last week was the definitions for the New York Heart Association Heart Failure classification.  I needed it to complete some paperwork for one of my patients."
Are we supposed to check for Clostridium difficile if the patient is clinically better after treatment for Clostridium difficile, to be sure it's gone?
I was late this morning because I saw a child in the emergency room who had been there all night, while the emergency room staff took care of two trauma cases.  The question is, "How do you get the emergency room staff to call us sooner so we could have seen this kid?"
Thirteen-year-old boy with recurrent epistaxis since age 3, always on one side.  "I don't know what to make of that."
30-year-old man with alcoholic cardiomyopathy.  Is it OK to drink at all?
18-year-old female was vaccinated for chickenpox four years ago and again one month ago.  She got a pruritic vesicular rash.  How common is it to get chickenpox after the vaccine?
I've got to look this up.  Mother mentioned there is a new growth chart for breast fed infants.  I was not aware of that.
29-year-old man.  Can Paxil cause weight gain or alopecia?
Four-year-old with asthma, got respiratory syncytial virus.  Do you give albuterol and steroids for respiratory syncytial virus?
A family physician had a newborn with a two-vessel cord.  Her question was "What should I do with this?"
Phone call from patient on Prempro which she stopped when she heard the news.  But now she has severe hot flashes.  "What's different about Ortho Pretest compared with Prempro?"
What is the best treatment for a needlestick injury after a human immunodeficiency virus exposure?
Can she take Plavix is the question.  I know it affects platelets.  What lab work do you need before starting Plavix?  It doesn't really say.  Are there any interactions with the other medications she's on (she already takes 11 other medications).
14-year-old boy with swelling over lower lumbar area.  No pain, no injury.  Horizontal area of swelling between the hips.  Plain x-ray negative.  I wasn't sure if any further workup was needed.
We had this girl with a latex allergy and wanted to give her a flu shot, but she has a latex allergy.  The stopper in the flu vaccine vial has latex in it so the question was how to deal with that.
Can you use ibuprofen in less than 6-month-old children?
70-year-old woman with dyspepsia.  I've gotten into the habit of checking for Helicobacter pylori and treating if I find it.  Sometimes it works and sometimes not.  You can't find anything about dyspepsia in the textbooks.
One-year-old boy.  What is the difference between Hib (PRP-D) (Haemophilus influenza b conjugate vaccine (Diphtheria Protein Conjugate)) and Hib (PRP-OMP) (Haemophilus influenza b conjugate vaccine (Meningococcal Protein Conjugate)) and which one should I give?
Is it OK to breast feed when you're on propylthiouracil?
44-year-old man here for immigration physical.  Is it cheaper to give the measles-mumps-rubella vaccination or get the titers?
I do have to look something up later.  Dyshidrosis.  Four-year-old brother of the patient I'm seeing.  Mother asked about him.  I have to look up the management of this later.
We had a patient with Dandy Walker syndrome.  Mother said he had it.  We used various references to look up an answer.  I (investigator) said, "What is the question?"  He said, "What is it?" meaning what is Dandy Walker syndrome.
45-year-old woman.  The question is regarding the use of Ultracet (Ultram plus acetaminophen) in a methadone user.  Would it be bad to use in her?
I've got one for you.  Indications for oral versus topical therapy for impetigo.
"When are you too old to have varicose vein surgery?"
The study physician asked me (investigator), "Have you ever used those depression scales?  I'm not sure how I would use them.  Give them to everyone in the waiting room?"
Not my patient but mother is calling for head magnetic resonance imaging results.  The results included an abnormal right cerebral hemisphere with neuronal migration disorder and changes of lissencephaly."  After reading this, the physician said, "Neuronal migration disorder.  I'd have to look that up to see what that means.
I've got a guy with a goiter who is hypothyroid.  I had the surgeon look at him after getting an ultrasound and the surgeon increased the dose of Synthroid even though the thyroid stimulating hormone was normal.  He wanted to oversuppress her to make the goiter shrink and reduce the risk of cancer.  But I didn't think you were supposed to do that.
52-year-old woman with right-lower-quadrant pain and a large fibroid (8 centimeters by 7 centimeters by 6 centimeters).  When and when not to do a hysterectomy for a fibroid?
58-year-old white female has a family history of ovarian cancer and is requesting a hysterectomy.  She said, "I'm not using this stuff, why not get rid of it?"  The question is, "Is hysterectomy an option for her?"  We do prophylactic mastectomies, so why not prophylactic hysterectomies?
What drugs does Fosamax interact with?
Young woman with acute Fifth disease (son also has it).  She is not pregnant.  She has increased swelling of her hands and her arms go numb and she has trouble sleeping.  Wants to know what to do.
I had this other gentleman (41-year-old man) with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy.  I just wondered if there is any connection between the polyneuropathy and the monoclonal gammopathy of uncertain significance.
62-year-old man.  One question is the management of fasting hyperglycemia or impaired glucose tolerance, whatever you want to call it.  "Nobody really talks about how often to check blood sugars."  "And how aggressive to be with lipids in that setting."  "So just sort of general management of impaired glucose tolerance."
I saw a girl with a seizure disorder.  I had to look up Keppra and Topamax.  Have you ever heard of those?
18-year-old girl with low back pain for 18 months, ever since a motor vehicle accident.  "I never know what to do with low back pain.  Do you x-ray them?  Or just have her seen by an orthopedic doctor?  Or get a magnetic resonance imaging?"
79-year-old female with atypical chest pain, status post coronary artery stent.  "I don't think you could find such a thing, but you know what would be nice would be to have a comparison of the different types of stress tests.  Sensitivity, specificity, ideal patient for each and the cost.  Like a big table."
Statin-induced myopathy.  40-year-old man on Lipitor having muscle pain and aches but creatine phosphokinase was normal.  So my question was, "Do you go more by the clinical symptoms versus an elevated creatine phosphokinase to be able to say this should be myopathy?"
55-year-old woman has had breast cancer.  Her question to me was, "What can I do to make sure I don't get ovarian cancer?"  "So screening."  I think there might be a risk of ovarian cancer in a woman with breast cancer.  I'm not sure.  Is there a role for ultrasound or CA 125 (cancer antigen 125) in this situation?
28-year-old woman had a deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolus with her first pregnancy.  I diagnosed her with prothrombin mutation.  I had a terrible time finding out how to treat her.
One year and 10-month-old boy removed from his home because of parental neglect.  Caretaker says he often cries like he's in pain, possibly abdominal pain.  Not eating, just drinking liquids, not sleeping.  The big question with him:  "Is it something physical or all adjustment disorder?"
What is the proper role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of low back pain if there are no obvious neurologic deficits?
48-year-old man.  How often is it recommended to check lipids in people being treated for hyperlipidemia?
15-year-old boy with history of tracheoesophageal fistula, often hospitalized when younger with respiratory illnesses.  One time he had respiratory syncytial virus and was very sick and I called the tertiary center.  "Should I give him Ribavirin?"
26-year-old man wants to stop smoking.  One question I've always wanted to look up:  Is the combined use of Zyban with nicotine replacement better than either one alone?
How should I treat this fractured base of the fifth metatarsal?  Would a splint be good enough?
24-year-old woman with chronic hepatitis B and a seizure disorder and elevated alanine aminotransferase.  Can Depakote cause an elevated alanine aminotransferase?
31-year-old woman in for annual exam.  Is St. John's Wort safe during pregnancy?
At what age would you worry if there are no teeth.  This was a 15-month-old.
18-year-old woman had a positive Influenza A test.  Her step father comes in 4 days later sicker than a dog.  "Which one works to treat Influenza A?"  "Would amantadine work because he didn't want to pay for Tamiflu."
I wanted to discontinue . . . Sometimes we place women on Depo-Provera shots who have heavy vaginal bleeding and anemia.  This one is 49 years old and my question was "When do you stop the Depo-Provera?"
There are these questions that parents bring up that you just say it's OK.  She asked me if there are any problems with just getting over infectious mononucleosis and giving the influenza vaccine.
I am looking at growth.  This is a kid with spastic quadriplegia and growth retardation.  "I just wanted to make sure I'm getting the right lab work, just to make sure what lab work I should get."
What do you do with a 39-year-old woman with dizziness, tingling in her chest and right arm, and shortness of breath?
For spotting in the first trimester, how often does ultrasound give a definitive answer as to the cause?
"What is an alternate drug for otitis media for an adult who is allergic to penicillin?"
I (investigator) caught the study physician's partner looking something up.  "Oh it's just her anemia.  What other things I need to add besides iron studies, reticulocyte count and having somebody look at the smear."
35-year-old woman swallowed her tongue piercing.  I called gastroenterology to ask if I should send her home of if they wanted to try to remove it.
46-year-old woman complaining of excess sweating and fatigue for 5 days.  The question is "Why is she sweating?"
The study physician called a hematologist and while she was on hold I (investigator) asked what the question was.  She said, a patient in the hospital with low platelets and "HIT" (heparin-induced thrombocytopenia) and a deep vein thrombosis.  "I'm calling to see if we should put him on that special low-molecular-weight heparin and if there is anything else we should do."
30-year-old female exposed to influenza.  Tamiflu versus Amantadine.  Is there any difference in efficacy for prevention?
She's a nurse and wanted to know the maximum dose of Celexa and the exact pregnancy category.
A couple of questions about her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  "If there are any benefits between inhalers and nebulizers in terms of objective lung findings?
2-week-old female.  Parents asked when is it appropriate to get ears pierced.
8-year-old girl with angioneurotic edema.  Mother said, "the only thing that works for her is Zithromax.  "I said, don't you mean Zyrtec.  She said, no Zithromax.  I (investigator) asked how he would phrase the question.  He said, "Has Zithromax ever been shown to be effective for angioneurotic edema and if so what's the mechanism or is this just a fluky thing?"
13-year-old boy with jaundice.  I saw him one time and his eyes were yellow.  We did a big workup and the bilirubin was 3 but everything else was normal.  I asked a pediatric gastroenterologist what would give this picture and is there a test for Gilbert's disease.
"One other question I had today -- differential diagnosis of false positive RPR (rapid plasma reagin)."
I have had two newborns recently with neonatal seizures at about 3 days of age.  The question is, "Is acyclovir too aggressive?"
His physician's assistant called about a patient with hidradenitis suppurativa asking how to treat her.
"I had this patient . . . has to do with dealing with families.  85-year-old woman was declining, dying.  At the very end, her daughter would not let up.  She wanted to be aggressive and it was completely inappropriate.  I didn't look this up, but dealing with family members with difficult end-of-life issues.  It was so beyond . . . .
My patient was convinced she had hypothyroidism.  Her labs were normal in August and I even checked antithyroid antibodies and they were negative.  She asked another physician to check her thyroid antibodies again and her thyroid peroxidase antibody was two times the upper limit of normal, so I called an endocrinologist and said, "Now what do I do with this?"
What typhoid vaccine should we give children over age 2 years, going to India?
How much does a tetanus shot cost?
35-year-old woman came in with ankle injury.  X-ray showed no fracture but there was a large lesion in the distal tibia.  "I'm going to look up bone tumors because I don't know anything about bone tumors."
Have you ever dealt with an autistic child who urinates only once a day?  6-year-old.
I don't know if you're doing this, but any baby born breech gets a hip ultrasound here.  I should look this up.  "Is this really necessary?"
I had a newborn referred to me yesterday with seizures.  The question was whether to start anticonvulsants.
Here's a question:  In someone with Addison's disease, is there any blood test you can do to check to see if they're on enough steroids, like an ACTH level or something?
21-year-old man with diabetes, I saw last Saturday when I was on "city call" (taking patients in the emergency room who had no personal physician).  He had new-onset diabetes but the question was, "Was it Type 1 or Type 2?"
58-year-old woman, bilateral reduction mammoplasty, pathology was positive for ductal hyperplasia.  Does that change breast cancer screening recommendations?
41-year-old woman with a family history of breast cancer.  What is the appropriate screening for her?
A middle-aged man with impotence on Prozac and Atenolol had a low free testosterone and it was low two years ago.  Follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone were normal.  Would I need to do a magnetic resonance imaging of the sella?
This is a 33-year-old woman with daily tension headaches for several months.  The question is what treatment to try next.
What are these brown dots on this 16-day-old's scalp?  The physician's partner asked him to look at the baby.
A patient had von Hippel-Lindau disease.  "What is it?  Is it cancer or a collection of blood vessels?"
Why does risperdal work for autistic regression and how do you know which cases it will work for?
34-year-old female.  Mother had breast cancer at age 49.  "When do you start screening?"
78-year-old man.  Screening prostate-specific antigen about 9.  Prostate biopsy shows Gleason 8 cancer in 1 lobe.  What treatment is best?
This is probably in the Framingham study or something but I'm never sure how many blood pressures you need to make a diagnosis of hypertension.
82-year-old female.  "What's the evidence for using meclizine for dizziness?"
64-year-old man with polymyalgia rheumatica, erythrocyte sedimentation rate about 80, jaw claudication and thighs weak.  "Should I start steroids even if no headache or blurred vision?"
The physician called the local mental health clinic and said, "I have just kind of a generic question.  I have an 18-year-old with attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder who was on Adderall but her obstetrician recommended stopping it.  Is there anything that your psychiatrists have that we could use during pregnancy?"
57-year-old man with a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.  At what duration of steroid treatment do you need to taper off instead of just stopping without tapering?
41-year-old female who said, "I am frustrated with the fact that I can't predict when my myasthenia gravis attack (or crisis) is coming.  Is there a way to predict it?  Like checking the peak flow for asthmatics?"
If the triglycerides are high, like 500, do you treat the low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol first with a statin even though you don't know what it is (cannot calculate if triglycerides over 400) or do you treat the triglycerides with Lopid?
Is there such a thing as bacterial bronchitis?  Why can't there be?  You can have bacterial infections everywhere else.
A patient called the study physician.  He and his kids are going to Asia and he wanted to know what to do for immunizations.  Also he wanted to know if he should take any antibiotics with him.
If just one of three stools is positive for occult blood, do you need to do a colonoscopy?
22-year-old woman.  Group B streptococcus on urine culture in early pregnancy.  Now 35 weeks.  "Do you still do a culture at 35 weeks?"
Two-and-a-half-year-old girl with a neuroblastoma.  Yesterday, mom delivered another baby.  Is it worth checking a chromosome study?
85-year-old man had left bundle branch block and had surgery and had a perioperative myocardial infarction.  So the question was what further evaluation is needed in a patient with left bundle branch block who is undergoing noncardiac surgery?
"How do you workup a rectal prolapse?"
I had a family physician call me from one of the outside clinics about a 23-year-old woman who had a viral illness with myalgias, and her creatine kinase was 8000.  Basically, the question was if influenza or just a regular viral illness can cause a creatine kinase elevation.
This is an ethical question.  I have an elderly lady who is depressed.  But she considers depression a "moral weakness" and says she's not depressed.  So the question is, "Can I give her an antidepressant and say it's an energy pill?"
50-year-old woman with Helicobacter pylori on biopsy at time of upper endoscopy.  The question is how to treat this.
Seven-year-old male on Pepcid and I wanted to start Ritalin.  The question was, "Are there any interactions?"
A woman with palpitations, good history for supraventricular tachycardia, heart rate up to about 200.  The question is whether herbal supplements could be causing her tachycardia.
"That would be an interesting question.  Whether there is any difference between a physician managing Coumadin and Coumadin clinics managing Coumadin."
"Is there any validity to "essential glyconutritionals"?
We had to do some research yesterday.  Hypercoagulation workup.  First of all, "should we work her up?  And what all labs should we do?"
How do I approach treatment of stools with frank white/pink gastrointestinal mucosal sloughing with a lack of blood in a former gastroschisis patient?
Which infants are candidates for Synagis (respiratory-syncytial-virus immune globulin) and when should it start?
41-year-old with wrist pain for one month.  X-ray showed avascular necrosis (didn't get which bone).  We got a magnetic resonance imaging which showed "DRUJ effusion" and something about "TFCC."  I had to ask an orthopedist to help me interpret the report.
What is this lump on the thigh of this woman?
Why does this patient have hypocalcemia?  Is it part of why he feels poorly?
47-year-old man.  What evaluation should be done for erectile dysfunction?
Elderly man with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.  "Just kind of knowing . . . ."  "There's something called neoadjuvant chemotherapy."  "Just trying to figure out the survival benefits with these regimens."
15-year-old girl with chronic headaches.  The question I have is, as we taper her off, can you use triptans to help taper someone who has chronic analgesic induced headache or how do you taper them off?
"Followup for breast biopsy that shows hyperplasia.  Not atypical hyperplasia.  But what do you do about breast hyperplasia on biopsy?"
A woman had Bell's Palsy as a young adolescent.  When she gets a headache, her eye gets droopy on the same side.  "I don't know if there's something like recurrent Bell's Palsy?"
I have a patient with a low hemoglobin 6 weeks ago.  Yesterday I saw him for a viral illness and his total serum iron was worse (down to 10 from 16), but the total iron binding capacity was lower and now in the normal range.  Am I missing something here?  Or could it still be iron deficiency?
What is the name of that diet pill that decreases the absorption of fat?
Is Avandia safe to use in a patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and severe coronary artery disease?
What is the treatment duration for bacteremia (urinary-tract-infection source, Escherichia coli)?
27-year-old homeless man, alcoholic, drug abuser, hepatitis C, hepatitis B.  I'm just looking up with Klonopin, he's using so much alcohol, how safe is it to use Klonopin in someone who uses alcohol and has chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis C.
I've got one for you.  Most common antibiotic associated with Stevens Johnson Syndrome.
14-year-old girl with rectal itching.  Would like to check for pinworms, but to order that test, I need to know the name of it.  I need to know what the test is called.
What is the dose of acyclovir?
70-year-old man with early Alzheimer's disease.  When do you start Aricept and when do you stop it?  What is the risk benefit ratio?  How do you objectively measure whether it's helping?
63-year-old woman went to a vascular surgeon for varicosities and she did a Valsalva (I don't know what test this is) and the blood went down but not up.  So the question is, "Can we just address the painful superficial veins and leave the deep venous system alone or is the problem with the deep system causing the painful superficial veins?
47-year-old man with a gallbladder polyp on right-upper-quadrant ultrasound.  I didn't know what to do.  Do you follow it or what?
79-year-old man.  Does one have to do any workup for coronary ischemia in elderly patients without any prior cardiac history that do have a lot of premature ventricular contractions?
Should we recommend colonoscopy earlier than usual if there is a family history of polyps?
Here's an ethical question:  "Do you tell patients about medical mistakes?"
What is the highest recommended dose of Avapro?
Adult woman, not seen today, but had nonulcer dyspepsia and Helicobacter pylori serology was positive.  Should you treat them with antibiotics and Prilosec without imaging their stomach?
I had to look up the definition of Borderline Personality Disorder.
I saw an 8-year-old girl who kept getting streptococcal sore throat so I cultured the whole family.  What is the best antibiotic for the carrier state?
What's the workup for a 26-year-old woman with weight loss?
45-year-old woman with diarrhea.  "What is dosing on Lomotil?"
13-year-old boy with ventriculoperitoneal shunt, spina bifida, comes in with headaches.  Always a question, is it a shunt malfunction or just a virus?  The question is, "When does he really need a computerized tomography?"
This pharmaceutical representative is trying to promote the 5 in 1 vaccine, Pediarix.  "What is the position of the American Academy of Pediatrics on that?"
Ten-month-old with a buckle fracture of the proximal tibia.  What is the treatment?
With pulmonary embolus, where does the money lie?  Spiral computerized tomography or ventilation perfusion scan?  Which is most cost effective?  Has it been proven which way to go?
We had an 8-year-old girl with joint pain and a positive antistreptolysin O titer but no other symptoms to go with rheumatic fever.  "Is that mild rheumatic fever?"
"I had a 66-year-old lady with an incidental adrenal mass.  Her plasma normetanephrines came back twice the upper limit."  "Then I had this question about which medications affect normetanephrine levels, because she's on theophylline and has diabetes.
This morning I asked my partner, who does treadmills, about a 58-year-old man who complained of typical chest pain and dyspnea.  My question was how should we approach this chest pain.  Should we send him to the cardiologist for further testing, or should we say the treadmill done three years ago was sufficient and work him up for gastroesophageal reflux disease or other causes.
This morning I saw a 13-year-old boy with "nonspecific urinary frequency."  The question is, "How to treat it?"
46-year-old woman.  Two-year history of Raynaud's phenomenon (all 3 color changes).  What is the recommended evaluation and therapy?
Thirty-eight-year-old woman with bloody diarrhea, worse over the past week. I treated her with Flagyl empirically.  I saw her two days later and she was lots better.  No more blood, no fever.  Now her report comes back and the Clostridium difficile is negative but she's growing Salmonella.  "Should I finish the Flagyl or discontinue it?"
We get these young girls with periods every two weeks for a year.  "When do you get concerned?  When do you regulate them?  When do you refer?"
Newborn.  Question from resident to study physician.  Why are oral hypoglycemics contraindicated in diabetic mothers during pregnancy and why was this mother on glyburide and everyone thought that was OK?
"I can tell you one question I had.  I had a patient with dry skin on both palms for years.  Three years ago I did a culture and got Aspergillus and treated him with Sporanox for one week and he got better.  He came in again with lots of scaling and redness. I cultured him again and got one colony of Aspergillus.  I read all these references.  Nothing!
What immunizations are needed at one year old?
I had a trauma patient this morning and the question was, what is the dose of morphine for a 2-year-old.
"What selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor has the highest incidence of serotonergic syndrome?"
22-year-old first prenatal exam.  There is a question on the form, "have you ever been tested for sickle cell trait?"  But what if they haven't been tested?  Is it a screening test that's recommended in pregnancy?
This is a recurring question.  With streptococcal sore throat, what's the youngest age at which the diagnosis of streptococcal sore throat is reasonable?
This question relates to a phone message which said this man wants me to see his wife who has somatization disorder.  What is the difference between somatization disorder and somatoform disorder?
"Where do I get growth charts for Downs babies?"
"What is the difference between gender identification disorder, gender dysphoria, and gender incongruent behaviors?"
Woman here for her Depo-Provera shot.  The nurse got a blood pressure about 160/95 and pulse about 110.  Referring to the elevated blood pressure, the study physician said to the nurse, "I don't think that's a contraindication is it?"
76-year-old woman with bladder cancer, last neoadjuvant chemotherapy was 6 weeks ago.  Came in with a generalized rash, one-half to one centimeter red lesions, not itching, not painful.  So the question is "What is this rash?"
78-year-old woman with anemia, possibly caused by her angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor.  After we switch her to Cozaar, how soon would you expect her to correct?
"Here's one.  Incidence of secondary cellulitis with insect bites."
The study physician received a phone call from a pediatric gastroenterologist in a different city regarding a 2-month-old she had referred with gastroesophageal reflux.  She (study physician) said, "Can you tell me a little bit about how much you're using Prilosec for infants and kids?"
12-year-old girl.  "How cold does it have to be to cancel recess?"
Last week I had a couple of patients with sinusitis whom my partner treated with Avalox and they didn't get better.  I was always told if you overuse fluoroquinolones, you will get resistance.  Our PharmD (Doctor of Pharmacy) in residency always said that.  The drug representative said no, no that's not true and so he said he would send information on it.
"I have a little question in the back of my mind.  34-year-old woman with sore throat and cough.  Husband has a documented peritonsillar abscess.  Are you more likely to have streptococcal pharyngitis if your spouse has an acute peritonsillar abscess?
40-year-old woman came to the emergency room with tetany and sensory changes in her back for 3 days and she had hypomagnesemia.  She also had low potassium and low calcium and the emergency room doctor thought the low magnesium could be due to the low calcium, but I didn't think that was right.  I decided to review the causes of low magnesium and the treatment and associated findings.
A woman with a pulmonary embolus status post pelvic surgery.  She was started on heparin and then Coumadin and had a postoperative hemorrhage at her surgical site so she had an inferior vena cava filter placed and the heparin was stopped.  Now she is 6 months post surgery and the question is whether she should be on anticoagulants in addition to having the filter.
65-year-old man.  "What is the most readily available and best absorbed oral iron preparation?"
73-year-old woman, 13 years ago had colon cancer resected.  She had a colonoscopy and they found one hyperplastic polyp.  The biopsy was negative, but you wonder . . . .  Should she have had a computerized tomography scan to look for metastases?
If one child has streptococcal sore throat and the sibling gets sick, should you culture the sibling or just treat over the phone?
I (investigator) caught the physician looking in a reference and asked what she was looking up.  She said, "I was just wondering how much I can go up on the Imodium?"
"Who would you give primary prophylaxis with aspirin for vascular events?
Lyme disease.  That always seems to raise its ugly head.  Specifically what to tell patients who are concerned about Lyme disease.
21-year-old man.  I looked up to see, in a guy I used Lamisil for toenail fungus, do you need to do liver function tests?
53-year-old man.  What is causing his testicular pain?
I looked up in this reference the definition of tubular adenoma, I was pretty sure it was benign but wanted to double check.
What am I doing wrong with this?"  He said this to another physician as he was trying to get the cryosurgery unit to work to treat a wart.
44 year-old woman.  She has four siblings with adenomatous polyps.  She was screened with a colonoscopy 3 years ago and does not have any.  "When does she need her next colonoscopy?"
6-year-old boy with sinusitis and bronchopneumonia.  What is the dose of Biaxin?
In patients with fatigue, you read about how to work them up and they say what to do for the various causes but "what do you do if the workup is negative?"
The physician came into her office and said 5 words and then walked out:  "Vitiligo.  Autoimmune disease, or not?"
I have a patient with gout.  Between Indocin prophylaxis and colchicine prophylaxis, what is better to prevent gout?
81-year-old man.  When do you do a liver biopsy in a patient with slightly abnormal transaminases and normal liver ultrasound with risk factors for fatty liver and the rest of the workup is negative (for example, hepatitis studies, antibody studies)?  And asymptomatic.
Phone call regarding one-year-old with fever of 102.  What is the dose of ibuprofen for kids?
2-year-old boy with fever and back pain.  What is the normal range for the white blood count in a 26-month-old?
This 38-year-old man came in complaining that he could feel his prostate and it felt full.  "I wasn't sure what to do with him."
One-year-old girl.  Physiologic murmur.  In what percent of healthy well-child checks is a physiologic murmur heard?
I have a question on quinine.  Cramps.  I have not seen in the literature using quinine for cramps.  "I'm not sure if it is still current practice or not."  "Has it fallen out of favor?"  "Do you need to check the electrocardiogram since it's related to quinidine?"
13-year-old boy.  When you have joint custody, does that mean both parents have to agree to tests and treatment or can just one agree?
60-year-old woman with gastric outlet obstruction and probably gastric lymphoma.  "I'm going to have to look that up."
I looked up the maximum dose of Remeron, because someone wanted a refill for 45 milligrams twice a day.
Woman in her late 40's.  My question is, in someone who's asymptomatic with an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, is there any study that tells you or gives you an . . . I don't know how to phrase it.
Five-year-old girl with diffuse alopecia now improving.  She was given the diagnosis of "loose antigen with hair disorder" by my former partner.  Some kind of childhood associated alopecia.  I've never heard of that.  The question was, "What is it?"
Ultraviolet keratitis.  Like welder burns.  Do you need to use antibiotic drops?
76-year-old woman with Parkinson's Disease and hoarseness secondary to that.  What do they do for hoarseness secondary to Parkinson's Disease?
"What is the best exercise for people with degenerative joint disease of the knee?"  She meant aerobic exercise to lose weight.
9-year-old with attention deficit disorder.  On 18 milligrams of Concerta and 5 milligrams of Ritalin in the morning and at noon.  I always thought you just give Concerta once a day.  Why was it that he needed the extra Ritalin?
Newborn with hip click.  Is this hip dislocated?  Study physician's partner wondered if there are any indications for x-rays when suspecting a dislocated hip, or if we only do ultrasound now.
A young guy with oro-genital ulcers.  The question is what is this.
Child with croup.  I treated with a single injection of Decadron 0.6 milligrams/kilogram/dose.  But what is the total maximum single dose?
6-month-old.  When does a kid with an undescended testicle need to be referred?  How long do you wait?
49-year-old woman status post removal of in-situ malignant melanoma from her arm.  What is the risk of metastases because now she has a new lump?
If you want to inject the knee with steroid, do you give it medially or laterally?
Last week we had a 2-year-old with idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura.  So the question was "How many doses of immunoglobulin to give?"
70-year-old man here for complete physical examination.  One of the things I struggle with is what screening tests to do.  I don't know what we really should be doing.
What is the treatment for cryptosporidium?
We have this home for "problem children."  One of the kids bit one of the employees.  I called one of the infectious disease nurses at the hospital here to see what their protocol is for human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis B, hepatitis C.
Positive galactosemia screen, borderline positive.  My question was, "OK, what followup test should I get?"  "What are they testing when they do the newborn screen?"  "OK, now where do we really go from here?"
I (investigator) saw the study physician looking up something in a reference.  I said, "This looks like a question."  She said, "Dose of Zithromax for a 19-pound baby."
"It's just hearsay about . . .like the tuberculin skin test.  It's not clear to me whether it's a requirement.
Here's a question:  Follicle stimulating hormone/luteinizing hormone ratios in the diagnosis of polycystic ovary syndrome.  Recently I've been reading that it's not felt to be a useful test.  Then why are the gynecologists ordering it all the time?  Is it a useful test or not?
"What are the chances of getting a viral gastroenteritis twice in one month?"
50-year-old chronic alcoholic man with markedly elevated alkaline phosphatase, 200 then 300 then 400 and now 1100.  Why does he have this elevated alkaline phosphatase?
Woman with acute vertigo and falling to the left.  (She had a head magnetic resonance imaging.)  "Was there any significance of the . . ." asymmetry of the transverse sinus, right dominant?
A question came up yesterday . . . I don't even know how to say it . . . What is the relative risk or the incidence of streptococcal sore throat in tonsillectomized patients?
Three-and-a-half-month-old boy with the worst case of infected eczema I've ever seen.  "My question is, did the Elidel cause or perpetuate the infection?"
40-year-old female injured her left knee three months ago.  Serial plane films were normal but we just repeated the magnetic resonance imaging because of persistent pain and it still shows the fracture without sign of healing but in good position.  The question is whether to continue conservative treatment with the knee immobilizer or do something more.
Seven-month-old born prematurely.  Mother accused of Munchausen's by proxy, followed at a tertiary center, upset with their care, wanted a second opinion.  I never know what to do with those.  "How can we not accept them?" I guess would be the question.
"This first patient (7-year-old male) had abdominal pain.  There were no real questions except why . . . This kid is clearly atopic.  He saw an allergist at age 5 and the allergist said we need to wait 2 or 3 years before doing a full evaluation.  Do we really need to wait?"
"No big questions except I had the usual prostate-specific antigen conversation."  The study physician and I (investigator) then had a long conversation in which it became clear that the question was whether to do routine prostate-specific antigen screening.
Is this a fungal infection?
"Is it overkill . . . .  I don't know if this is the kind of thing you want.  Forty-four-year-old with change in bowel habits, diarrhea, constipation over the past couple of months.  With that history in a 44-year-old would you refer for colonoscopy?"
New PIXI (peripheral instantaneous x-ray imager) scan and DEXA (dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry) scan.  "Is there any clinical evidence for how the PIXI scan correlates with the DEXA scan?"
75-year-old man with diabetes.  What is the maximum dose of glyburide?
I had a guy, 68-year-old man, with subclavian steal syndrome.  Had to look that up, the signs and symptoms.
Do you know if Armour Thyroid suppresses the thyroid stimulating hormone but leaves the free thyroxine normal?
37-year-old on Triphasil with 10 days of bleeding starting 5 days before the placebo pills.  I'm just checking the dose of Provera for dysfunctional uterine bleeding.
Lady in her 70's with an ileostomy noted increased ileostomy output and wondered if she could have a fistula and if it was urine.  The question was why her ileostomy output was increased.  Was this just diarrhea or something else and then how to find out if it was a fistula.
Last week I had a 72-year-old man with an elevated alkaline phosphatase of approximately 210 units per liter (normal 20 - 125).  I broke it down, but each individual component was normal:  bone approximately 40% (normal 23 to 62%), liver approximately 55% (normal 38 to 72%), and intestinal approximately 5% (normal less than 18%).
15-month-old girl.  At age 12 months she had a microcytic anemia (hemoglobin about 11, mean corpuscular volume about 68 with normal over 75) and I put her on iron for 3 months, but after that she was still anemic (about 12) and the mean corpuscular volume was not back to normal (it was about 73).  We did iron studies and a hemoglobin electrophoresis but these were normal.  Now she has microcytosis but no more anemia.  "Do you need to do anything more?"  "Do I need to check it again or how often?"
11 and 1/2-year-old male with intermittent testicular pain for the last 6 weeks.  Episodic, exam within normal limits, no hernia, urinalysis negative.  The question is, what is the etiology?
I have a patient with iron-deficiency anemia and heme positive stools (69-year-old man).  He refuses a gastroenterology evaluation.  It's more of a legal . . . "How much is enough informed consent?"
Is there any difference among different types of estrogen in terms of adverse effects and benefits, such as vaginal atrophy, mood, and breast tenderness?
"Would any further workup be needed in a patient who is having post traumatic headaches?"
Seven-year-old girl with eczema, no better on hydrocortisone cream.  The physician asked me (investigator), "Do you know if they (meaning physicians at the university) are using Elidel?"  "Is there any concern with using it in terms of toxicity?  Is there any immune suppression with long term use?"
60-year-old man here for preoperative physical for cholecystectomy.  "What percent of patients with porcelain gallbladder will develop cancer and is it really necessary to take it out?"
Here is a nursing home patient (elderly female) (said this while going through his mail) with a pressure ulcer on her heel.  I guess I'm supposed to know this -- which of the dozens of dressings available are best for this?
4-year-old girl.  "What percent of bronchitis in pediatric patients is viral?"  I think 90%.
Refractory vertigo.  That's always a question.  Most things talk about what to do, but in terms of refractory vertigo, that's always hard.
Phone call with otolaryngologist:  "If you have a negative Dix-Hallpike maneuver, but you still think it's benign positional vertigo, will vestibular rehabilitation still help?"
I saw an almost 3-year-old girl this morning.  She had a ventricular-septal-defect murmur at birth, never had an echocardiogram, just went by the sound of it.  She had a little murmur now in the pulmonic area, intermittent, I hear it with inspiration.  The question was, well what is it exactly and where do I look it up exactly and I decided, well, I'm not going to find that anywhere, so I'm referring him on.
A boy with attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder.  What is Spark?  The mother asked me.  I've never heard of it.
19-year-old coming in with "vitiligo."  He said this before seeing the patient.  He said, "Let's just look this up as he pulled a reference off his shelf.  Before he had a chance to look anything up, I (investigator) said, "Before you look, what's the question?"  He said, "Oh, just is there any treatment? And how to distinguish from that fungal infection?
I saw an 8-year-old girl with a chronic vaginal discharge.  I never referred her and I didn't know who I would refer her to anyway.  I never found out what it was.
28-year-old woman with premature ovarian failure, diagnosed at a tertiary center.  She's been on several types of hormone replacement and always gets migraine headaches from them.  The question was what other preparations could we use that would be better for her migraines.
Another area we've had trouble with is Hepatitis C.  I had a male patient I diagnosed with Hepatitis C, sent to a tertiary center where they did a recombinant DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and confirmed type C.  But a different tertiary center tested twice and it was negative.
63-year-old man got hyponatremic (sodium 120, 121) so I had a question about the causes and treatment of that.  He had a seizure.  I was never convinced it was from the low sodium though, because usually it has to be 110 or 115.  So I looked that up to see if that sodium level could cause a seizure.
Fatty liver.  What I don't know is whether biopsy is the standard of care.  "Is that the standard of care?"
Five-year-old boy with a distal radius fracture (buckle fracture).  Should I use a long arm cast or short arm?
Another question I've had.  Singulair and Accolate.  "Do these things work in allergic rhinitis?"
16-year-old with attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder on Dexedrine SR.  The question is whether it is OK to mix these two drugs (Dexedrine and Ritalin) to even out the effect over time.  What are the potential problems with doing this?
Is a uterine ultrasound enough for menometrorrhagia in a 44-year-old?
73-year-old woman, 13 years ago had colon cancer resected.  Now she is itching.  How common is itching as a paraneoplastic syndrome following treatment for colon cancer?
I do not understand the significance of plain urinalyses looking for glucose and albumin.  What is the usefulness of this if they have +1 albumin or +2 albumin, what are they going to do with them?  What is the clinical usefulness of doing this?  If I don't do it, what are the implications for the patient?
I had a 31-year-old woman with a mediastinal mass with dyspnea and dysphagia.  She had a thoracoscopy and biopsy and this showed a noncaseating granuloma.  So now the question was, did she have sarcoid or histoplasmosis?
73-year-old woman.  The radiologist said on the mammogram report, "increased density possibly related to hormone replacement therapy."  "Can they say that?  That seems like a clinical diagnosis."
Here's a good question.  DEXA (Dual-Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry) and computerized tomography bone density are different!  I (investigator) asked her how she would phrase the question.  She said, "Why is there such a discrepancy and which one should we be using?"
I have a dilemma.  9-year-old girl status post appendectomy last summer (one year ago).  Two to three months afterward she started complaining of suprapubic abdominal pain at least two times per week.  "I'm trying to now think how do you evaluate this type of pain.  Is it adhesions?  OK, how do I look at constipation, adhesions . . . how to do one thing to get the answer?  Should she have an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging)?"
85-year-old woman.  Is it smart to give the tetanus shot and the pneumonia shot at the same time?
I have a patient with Graves disease.  Ablation done.  Still hyperthyroid.  Every time I get her lab work back I have to rethink how to adjust her Tapazole.
"Three-week old boy admitted with pyloric stenosis.  Intravenous fluids."  I (investigator) asked what the question was.  She said, "He was still keeping some formula down, but if he did stop eating, I wanted to know what kind of intravenous fluids to give.  I knew how to calculate the rate, I just wanted to know the kind of fluid."
What are the dosage forms of Effexor?
72-year-old female with abdominal pain.  What are the signs and symptoms of mesenteric artery occlusion and how do you test for it?
4-year-old girl with intermittent vomiting, two times per week for the last 5 weeks, always at night.  The question is "What is it?"
50-year-old man with ulcerative colitis.  He's been passing bright red blood for the past few days.  He's on Asacol 400 milligrams three times a day.  My question is, can I increase his Asacol?
Last Thursday a 52-year-old woman fell on an outstretched arm and she had some swelling.  Her x-ray showed a chip fracture off the triquetrum or lunate.  This was the first time I had a fracture like that and the question was how to treat this.
Is the 40-milligram Lipitor tablet scored?
61-year-old man.  Are there any competitors to Androgel?  I looked it up in a reference in the exam room.
50-year-old woman with Helicobacter pylori on biopsy at time of upper endoscopy.  She had a good question.  She asked me how long she should continue the Nexium after she finishes the 10-day course for treatment of the Helicobacter pylori.  I (study physician) didn't know.
I (investigator) caught the physician looking in a reference.  "I'm just looking up the dose of Zoloft."  (Actually the maximum dose.)
60-year-old man.  Low calcium on screening labs.  History of thyroidectomy for hyperthyroidism.  I followed up the low calcium with parathyroid hormone, phosphorus, and vitamin D levels which confirmed hypoparathyroidism.  Patient was totally asymptomatic.  Why do I need to treat?  Can it be left alone until he develops symptomatic hypocalcemia?
3-year-old boy.  Phone call from mother.  The dentist says he's grinding his teeth a lot at night and the dentist is concerned, but he didn't tell her what to do.  So the question is what to do.  Psychological treatment?  Medical treatment?
An 18-month old in for a well-child check.  We always wait two days after a fever goes away before giving any vaccines.  Is there any scientific data to support this?
Two-year old girl with Kawasaki's diagnosed about 7 days into her illness.  There is a recommended aspirin blood level for kids with rheumatoid arthritis but not that I could find for Kawasaki's disease.  "Is there any utility in shooting for that blood level in a patient with Kawasaki's disease or should you just go with the recommended dose?"
"Are the Typhoid vaccine pills on the market?"
Five-year-old boy seen by my partner for kindergarten physical, mentioned he had been having some chest pain.  Got an electrocardiogram which showed a QTc (corrected QT interval) of 440 milliseconds, otherwise normal electrocardiogram.  "Any further workup needed?"
What is the conservative treatment of tarsal tunnel syndrome?
This isn't a major one but this patient has had a cough for over a year, nonproductive, no wheezing.  One of her parents has asthma, aspirin sensitivity and nasal polyps.  I was just wondering what the inheritance of that is.  Autosomal dominant or what?
Seventeen-year-old girl going to Haiti.  At what age can you use oral typhoid vaccine?
54-year-old white female presents with respiratory failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.  Also elevated creatine phosphokinase (greater than 600) with about 35% MB fraction (normal up to 9%), but negative electrocardiogram, negative Troponin-T and no chest pain.  The question is whether this represents a myocardial infarction in addition to the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.
21-year-old woman.  "For people with recurrent bacterial vaginitis, do you do any suppressive treatment?"
Rhabdomyolysis.  53-year-old farmer.  On exam, had mildly tender thighs.  I just got a creatinine kinase almost on a lark and it was 676.  "What do I do now?"
64-year-old woman complaining of trouble finding words.  Magnetic resonance imaging showed multiple high signal intensity changes in the periventricular white matter with an orientation suggesting multiple sclerosis.  I didn't know what to do.
Barotrauma -- how does it present in the ears?  Forty-year old man who went scuba diving.
Cough for one week, not getting better. 17-year-old girl.  The question is, should she have antibiotics.
13 and 11/12-year-old boy, lives in a group home, has had neck pain for two days.  The question is, "Do you get an x-ray or not?"
78-year-old woman with anemia, possibly caused by her angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor.  Is Cozaar an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor-2?
Drug representative visiting.  I had a patient with hypertension, well-controlled.  I started him on Celebrex and the blood pressure went to 200/110.  "Can this happen?"
The nurse came in and said he had to rewrite the prescription for cholestyramine light for 90 days because 4 cans was not enough.  He called the pharmacist and told him she was getting two scoops twice a day and wanted to know how long one can would last.
Thirty-five-year-old woman.  Two days ago she had some local anesthesia for minor surgery.  Yesterday she had some fullness in her ankles and fingers and she says everything feels stiff.  No arthralgias, just edema.  She has a little lymphopenia so it may be viral but . . . .  "What would cause this?"
85-year-old woman.  Hemoglobin has been about 11 for 5 years, normal iron studies.  If you have someone with borderline anemia (hemoglobin 10 or 12), when are Procrit (erythropoietin) injections indicated?
Monday I admitted a 7-month-old boy with a reaction to peanuts.  I called an allergist and asked him what he's seen in kids this age with a first exposure to peanuts.  Do you get peanut exposure in utero was the question.
I just saw a baby with a sacral dimple.  What test do you do to check for a tethered cord?  Magnetic resonance imaging or ultrasound?
12-year-old boy with autism and attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder.  What would an appropriate sedative be for occasional procedures such as haircuts and dental appointments?
5-year-old boy with cough, possibly pertussis.  What is the dose of erythromycin for pertussis?
"Have you ever prescribed Zantac 300 milligrams twice a day?"
Partner of study physician got a lab report that a urine culture was growing gram negative bacilli.  She wanted to know if that was consistent with Escherichia coli.
81-year-old man here for prothrombin time and dyspnea on exertion.  "What is the appropriate interval for doing prothrombin times once they're therapeutic?"
Could diphtheroids cause an abscess and should they be treated?
"What do you do with hilar adenopathy in a kid with pneumonia?  Is this a normal finding with pneumonia?  Do you need to worry about a lymphoma?"
A woman admitted with asthma.  She said one of her children has a rare hemoglobinopathy.  (The patient named the hemoglobinopathy.)  I couldn't remember what that was so I looked it up in a reference in the hospital library.
"Are these Xopenex studies showing fewer side effects reliable?
I had a man in the hospital a week ago.  He had a superficial vein thrombosis.  I know you're not supposed to anticoagulate if it's superficial but I repeated the ultrasound three or four days later and it showed "slight extension."
60-year-old woman presented yesterday with a perfect story for influenza, except there's no influenza around. (It's June.)  Do you use anti-influenza medications?
2-month-old boy had a seizure versus apneic episode at age one week while I was making rounds.  She said, I'm going to give his immunizations today.  "I just want to make sure it's OK to give his DTaP (diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis vaccine)."
What is the best treatment for an excess amount of foreskin left after circumcision?  Also skin bridging to the glans.  What should be done with that?
A newborn was found to be hypoglycemic at birth on routine screen and despite treatment it persisted and was not responsive to treatment.  The question was what to do about this.
9-year-old boy with self-injurious behaviors.  The question is, "What would be an appropriate short acting sedative?"
71-year-old lady with elevated potassium (5.3 with normal 3.5 to 5.0).  No other laboratory abnormalities.  "Do I check a phosphate?"
72-year-old man with hypertension.  He is on Lotrel 5/20, Atenolol 100 milligrams, Cardura 4 milligrams and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 milligrams.  His blood pressure today is 166/72 by the nurse and I got 180 systolic.  The question is where to go from here with his antihypertensives.
61-year-old man with rash on face, thought to be secondary to photosensitivity from herbal medication, but now worse even after stopping this preparation.  "How are we going to fix him?"  "What else could be doing this?"
46-year-old woman with pituitary.  There should be a book with all you need to know about prescribing steroids.  It should have all types of steroids and a comparison scale with the concept of equivalent doses and the concept of physiologic levels and the concept of stress dosing, and how to bump up and taper down.
A perpetual question.  What to do with obesity?
"If their high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol is 70 and the low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol is 160, who wins the battle?"
Our clinic just instituted computer-assisted detection (CAD) for mammography.  "Any better?"  "Increased false positives?"
What is the dose of Valtrex for cold sores?
If a kid has a nondescript rash, would you ever treat for scabies and see if they get better?
69-year-old woman, diagnosis of temporal arteritis 10 years ago after a biopsy.  Then got off prednisone after 8 years.  Recently has been having headaches and blurred vision. Now, today she says she's seeing double (physician said this before going in to see her).  "So I'm wondering what's going on with her.  I'm wondering if we should get magnetic resonance imaging."
College student.  Suicide attempt by taking 50 Excedrin Migraine and 50 Ibuprofen.  That amounts to 12 grams of Tylenol.  Is that a toxic dose?
A question the study physician wrote on the data form from a previous visit:  "28-year-old white female notes increased acne after starting Ortho Tri-Cyclen.  Is there a better choice?"
Three-and-a-half-week-old with persistent indirect hyperbilirubinemia (up to 24).  What is the workup?
What do you do with heparin anticoagulation in pregnancy?
With a 6-month to 12-month old infant, how do you supplement their diet if the mother is a vegetarian and wants her child to also be a vegetarian? How do you give them enough protein?
70-year-old woman.  A year after stopping Prempro she was still having hot flashes.  She (the patient) asked, "Shouldn't a 70-year-old woman stop having hot flashes?"
Last week I had an adult woman seen in the emergency room with dyspnea and she had a mildly elevated D-dimer.  My question was, "What do I do with this?"
I saw a young boy.  "What is the definition of conduct disorder?"
I saw a lady with a sore thumb.  I thought it was gout.  What is the sensitivity of joint aspiration in diagnosing gout?
A school-age child in for a physical exam has trace hematuria on the dipstick.  "Where do you go from there?"
7-year-old girl from an orphanage in Eastern Europe, received the BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin) vaccine.  Had a 12-millimeter tuberculin skin test.  Has had up to 17-millimeter reaction in the past, didn't know if she had been treated before.  The question was "What will happen to the tuberculin skin test in a year when she gets tested again?  Will it come down?
Swelling in the body.  Non-specific swelling, for example in the hands, not necessarily dependent edema.  You do a workup and there's no proteinuria and no kidney problem.  Is it even worthwhile working it up?
One-year-old.  I have to look up head sizes, familial megancephaly.  I (investigator) asked how he would phrase the question.  He said, "What is the differential diagnosis of large head size?"
6 and 11/12-year-old boy referred from a family physician with adrenarche.  Wondering about precocious puberty.  Did a bone age which was consistent with 8 years old, so I (study physician) said that's significant.  But when I called the mother she said, well that's only one year, is that significant?  So my question was, "What is a significant bone age discrepancy?"
How do you tell the difference between treating anxiety and treating benzodiazepine withdrawal symptoms when someone is trying to decrease their benzodiazepine intake?
I have 2 kids with migraine, age 10 and 14.  "What is a specific treatment for migraine in pediatrics?"
45-year-old woman, she's active but not on her feet all day, complaining of edema.  Pedal edema, mildly edematous, leg edema with no signs of venous insufficiency or other causes for edema.  "What do you do with these people?"
51-year-old woman with myasthenia gravis.  I've been having trouble finding out what drugs exacerbate myasthenia gravis.
What is the sensitivity of the gonorrhea and chlamydia tests we do (PCR or whatever it is)?  Most of the ones I get are negative but can we trust that?
I have a girl with facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy.  I would like to know what the natural history is and if there's any way to treat it.
45-year-old woman.  "I looked up the definition for malignant hypertension following a request from a patient. They emailed wanting to know if they had it.
A nine-year-old came in this morning to follow up a recent hospitalization for pneumonia.  Now he's much better.  Chest x-ray is better.  White count is 8,000 to 10,000.  But about 900,000 platelets.  What should I do?  Should I repeat it and how soon?  Should I worry about it?  I said we will repeat it in 1 month.  Do I need to do it sooner?
Consult from a family physician.  17-day-old girl with fever of 102.  Blood culture showed alpha streptococcus.  One question was whether this was most likely a pathogen or a contaminant.
I (investigator) noted an open book on the physician's desk and asked if there was an associated question recently.  "I was looking up to see what the standards are for hypertension in the newborn and the workup of hypertension if it continued."
Is it legal to send prescriptions to Canada?
31-year-old pregnant woman with a cough.  I'm just double checking to see if Augmentin is safe during pregnancy and to see if guaifenesin is safe.
"Care of metacarpal fractures."  Relates to a patient seen within the last month.
Two-day-old.  Why are infants of diabetic mothers more likely to have polycythemia?
15-month-old.  Was he adequately vaccinated for polio or did he need another?  He's had three polios so far.
"Why does the American Academy of Pediatrics, American Academy of Family Physicians, and the Centers for Disease Control recommend five Diphtheria-Pertussis-Tetanus immunizations but the State of Iowa only requires three before school entry?  And only three polios?"
A phone message to one of the study physician's partners, quickly became a question for the whole group of physicians in the office that day.  The phone message referred to an 8-year-old boy and read "Problem with gagging very easily with bad smells or gross things.  Mom asks -- anything that can be done?"
Four-day-old male under bililights.  The congenital adrenal hyperplasia test came back positive.  How do I deal with this?
42-year-old woman got 7 days of antibiotics for a cellulitis on her finger.  Some use 7 days.  Some use 10.  Some use 14.  I know it's been studied for streptococcal pharyngitis and urinary tract infections but cellulitis?
Ten-year-old male referred with developmental delay (age 4) and attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder, on Strattera.  "When do you use Strattera and why would you use that out of the gait (rather than a stimulant)?"
25-year-old woman with severe anxiety, on Xanax, and also vomiting because of gastroesophageal reflux disease.  I know they make a topical Ativan gel.  They use it for hospice patients with vomiting.  So I was wondering about using it in her.  I don't know how you'd switch to that exactly.  It's kind of a question running through my mind.
81-year-old female with atrial fibrillation and edema.  She looked sick so I got a digoxin level and it was 3.0.  She was on digoxin 0.25 milligrams once a day.  "How is the dose to be adjusted?"
17-year-old girl with institutional colon.  The question is how to treat her.
This patient was hospitalized and found to have rectal carcinoid.  The question was treatment and how often do they metastasize.
50-year-old woman.  "Why does every woman over age 30 complain of trouble remembering things?"
Adding Cytomel (T3) to augment Synthroid in patient's with depression and hypothyroidism.  I can't find any good evidence for that.  I (investigator) asked her what the question was and suggested, "Is that a legitimate thing to do?"  She agreed that was the question.
She (study physician) asked me (investigator), "You can use Questran for cholestatic pruritus, right?"
Seven-month old boy with bronchiolitis.  "How much methylprednisolone can I give him?"
Six-month-old girl.  That's one question that comes up.  "When do you recheck ears after otitis media?"
What is the sensitivity and specificity of straight-leg raising and other physical exam findings for herniated disks?
What is the best obesity surgery?  Vertical banded gastroplasty, Roux en Y?  And what are the indications for surgery?
82-year-old woman.  Can Tamoxifen (being used for breast cancer) cause elevated blood pressure?
This patient's blood sugar is fine, but her father has Type 2 diabetes and several nieces and nephews have Type 1 diabetes.  The patient has one daughter.  The question is, how frequently should she (the daughter) be screened for diabetes.
What is the accuracy of non-finger-stick blood sugar checkers?
Newborn at 38-weeks gestation, term, Cesarean section for fetal distress, uncontrolled diabetic.  Oximeter was 50, not tachypneic, no murmur.  I (investigator) prompted, "So the question was, what's causing the low oxygen saturations"?  The physician said, "Yes, my partner said, 'I didn't have any idea what was going on.'"
60-year-old woman with gastric outlet obstruction and probably gastric lymphoma.  The endoscopist wrote "linitis plastica."  I can't remember what that means.
The study physician wrote this:  "49-year-old man. (1) how best to diagnose fatty liver? (does this man's morbid obesity and isolated alanine aminotransferase elevation qualify) (2) how much workup is necessary?  (3) any management available other than weight loss?
57-year-old woman with irregular heart rhythm had been started on flecainide.  I (investigator) saw her looking in a reference.  I said, "I saw you looking in . . . "  She said, "Tambocor.  I didn't know what it was.
61-year-old man with photodermatitis, taking Herbalife.  Are any of the ingredients in Herbalife photosensitizers?
Tachypneic baby that didn't get tachypneic until day-of-life one.  Nobody knew what was wrong.
A woman with lymphoma undergoing chemotherapy and wanted birth control.  The question was what were the options in this patient with lymphoma, undergoing chemotherapy, and history of thromboembolic disease.
23-year-old man with tinea cruris and athlete's foot.  He's a student so he doesn't have any money.  I looked up to see if you could use Sporanox for tinea cruris.
If a child throws up their medication, how long since the medication was given before you can assume it was absorbed and you don't need to repeat the dose?
79-year-old man in for followup of sciatica.  My question is . . . Obviously with definite signs of spinal cord compression we get active and do further workup.  The question is . . . Some patients come in with vague symptoms and soft signs.  "How far do we go in working them up?"
37-year-old man.  I looked up the smallest dose of Prinivil in the exam room, online.
Do ventilation tubes make tympanic thermometer readings even less accurate?
36-year-old woman.  The thyroid stimulating hormone is low but the free thyroxine is normal.  What does it mean?
75-year-old man.  What ultrasound surveillance is necessary after carotid endarterectomy and is any ultrasound surveillance needed?
Clonus in a 2-month-old.  Mother noticed it.  Is this abnormal?
My partner had a 13-year-old boy with exudative tonsillitis.  I (investigator) asked what the question was.  She (physician) said, "What would be the differential?"
"Why is it difficult for postmenopausal women to lose weight?"
3-year-old boy with dysuria.  Urinalysis totally clear except for many calcium oxalate crystals.  Can that cause dysuria?
Man with partially avulsed finger nail from snowblower accident.  "What would you use for antibiotics?"
Five-week-old with colic who cries so hard she passes out.  No seizure activity.  How young do you see breath holding spells?
"13-year-old boy, very overweight, has gynecomastia.  Mother said, 'I just read a magazine article about a treatment for gynecomastia.'  Is there a pill for gynecomastia?  I didn't know of any."
Is there a drug for chlamydia if the patient cannot swallow pills?
What is the risk of stroke in a 74-year-old woman with atrial fibrillation, not on anticoagulants?
Young man on Paxil.  He's on 20 milligrams once a day.  He wants samples.  We have samples of the extended release but not the regular.  "Let me see what's equal."
7-year-old boy with attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder.  Does Metadate ER come in a lower dosage form than 20 milligrams?
A 2-year-old whose relatives had neuroblastoma.  Mom asked if she needed to be screened for neuroblastoma.  I didn't know so I called an oncologist.  He said, "I don't know either.  I'll have to look it up."
35-year-old woman with multiple antibiotic allergies.  There are only certain antibiotics she can take.  Just a couple of quinolones.  "But the question is, if she had been positive for streptococcus, I don't know if quinolones . . . what anti . . . ?"
68-year-old man with an isolated elevation of the alkaline phosphatase.  "How far do you go with the workup?"
50-year-old man.  High-density-lipoprotein cholesterol is high but low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol is also high.  Which one wins?
54-year-old man taking saw palmetto.  I can't think of the enzyme it blocks off the top of my head.
"In patients who have had a hysterectomy, is there any sense in doing pelvic exams?
5-year-old girl, inpatient, with possible achondroplasia.  However, the pediatric radiologist didn't think it was achondroplasia so the question was, "What is the differential diagnosis of bony aplasia?"
74-year-old man with dyspnea.  Remote smoker.  "I'm just wondering if there's anything else that could be causing it and if there's any treatment."
74-year-old female with memory loss and a negative workup.  "What's the right dose of Ginko?
What do you do with serous otitis?  Long term antibiotics?  Nose spray?  Decongestants?  I do nothing usually and then if it's persistent, when do you refer and what do you do about it?
12-year-old boy got his first Hepatitis B vaccine a year ago.  Mother just spaced it off and never came back for the second in the series.  Does he need to start over and if not, when should the second shot be given and when should the third be given?
I always thought atrial fibrillation would lead to emboli in large vessels but this woman had a retinal artery occlusion.  "Is there any predilection for the size of the vessel occluded by an embolus from atrial fibrillation?  Can it be any size vessel?"
This is a 12-year-old girl with rectal itching at night and her pinworm slide was positive.  The question is how often to give Vermox.
We saw this lady with a history of renal stones and hypercalcemia.  The parathyroid hormone was 5 (normal 10 to 65), the calcium was about 9 (normal) and the phosphorus was about 2.0 (should be greater than 2.5).  "So it's like, OK, what do we do with this now?"
I looked up the immunizations for an 18-month-old.
I had a woman with perioral dermatitis.  I didn't know what it was.
Four-month-old.  "Positional plagiocephaly in infants.  "Do you need to put that head banding thing on?"  Do they need treatment?"  Cranial banding.  We're putting kids on their back now.  Do they need that helmet?
Does Griseofulvin come in a 375 milligram pill?
Now that we have the Women's Health Initiative results, in patients who have been on Premarin for 15 years and are now 70 years old, are you pulling them off?
21-year-old female.  Father had a coronary angioplasty at age 36.  Do you screen her for coronary artery disease and if so when do you start screening?
35-year-old woman with insomnia.  I looked up dosages of Celexa and Ambien online in the exam room.
60-year-old white female.  What are the eye manifestations of sarcoid?
51-year-old woman with myasthenia gravis.  Has this erythema multiforme like rash.  She went to a dermatologist who said, no, it's more like some kind of drug reaction.  So, "what skin disease does she really have?"  "I don't know what to really have her on for this skin problem."
22-year-old man on Ritalin for attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder.  After he takes his dose, he craves cigarettes.  I (investigator) said, "I've never heard of that."  She (physician) said, "I haven't either."
38-year-old woman.  "Does all axillary breast tissue have to be removed?"
10-year-old girl complaining of a buffalo hump on the back of her neck.  What causes a buffalo hump besides Cushing Syndrome?
43-year-old woman.  I don't know if she's neurotic or what, but she complains of environmental toxins.  What to do in this situation?
"What is the chance that aspirating a joint effusion that is not red or tender will yield anything diagnostically?"
Fourteen-month-old girl.  We thought the girl had Fifth Disease.  "Do you get hives with Fifth Disease?" was my question.
50-year-old woman with an adrenal "incidentaloma" on computerized tomography scan.  "Does positron-emission tomography (PET) scanning have a place in the evaluation of an adrenal incidentaloma?"  When should you order it?  What is the role of positron-emission tomography in this situation?  Would a positron-emission tomography scan tell you if it was cancer?
Another one I always have is preventive care of people over 80 years old.  Is there any consensus at all on lipid screening or colon cancer screening, for example?
49-year-old woman in for a preoperative physical.  She has a lump in the groin.  What is this lump in the groin?
My last patient this morning is an 11-year-old boy.  "Why would he be mildly anemic and have schistocytes?"  "I'm not sure what causes schistocytes."
Did we talk about whether crack smoking can precipitate sickle cell crisis?
One-year-old boy.  "Are we going to be too late for the hepatitis vaccine?"
New congenital cataracts in a child.  When should you be able to pick that up?
35-year-old man.  What are the long term complications for coarctation of the aorta repair in an adult who had the repair as a child?
40-year-old man with diabetes, wanted disability.  They never teach this in medical school but it's so common in practice.  How to do a disability evaluation (was my (investigator) sense of the question).
Seven-year-old boy with possible attention deficit disorder.  I (investigator) asked him what the question was and he said, "Well, I think 5 milligrams of Ritalin twice a day should be high enough to have some effect with a seven-year-old, but the question was, do you increase the dose or do you just put him on it or what?"
Mother has juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.  "Is the baby at high risk for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, and what would we be looking for in the baby?"
What do you do with a Papanicolaou smear that has no endocervical cells?  I usually repeat it but what if the second one shows no endocervical cells?
I had a kid with congenital hypothyroidism and I tried to look up how often and when do you need to monitor his thyroid stimulating hormone and thyroxine.
83-year-old woman with chronic edema in her legs.  She scraped it and got cellulitis.  Now do I keep her on antibiotics until every bit of redness is gone, or can I stop now assuming the redness is consistent with resolving cellulitis?
44-year-old woman.  No period since March (it is late June).  So I asked Dr. X (family physician partner), "Is there a chance she could be pregnant and I asked about blood versus urine pregnancy test, whether either is better."
Elidel.  I wasn't sure if I could use it for cradle cap.
17-year-old girl complaining that her left lower quadrant is "hard."  My question was what is the best way to evaluate this.
45-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus, blue toes due to vascular disease, history of reflex sympathetic dystrophy.  The question is, "What is reflex sympathetic dystrophy?"
What is the best antibiotic for a severe corneal abrasion?
Indications for carotid endarterectomy.  Woman with 70-80% stenosis so she's not quite there, but I don't know.
Does every stroke patient need to be admitted to the hospital?
I wish we had some sort of screening questionnaire for irritable bowel syndrome.
33-year-old woman.  Father and brother have Huntington's Chorea.  "What are the warning signs of Huntington's Chorea?  Is depression an early sign?
35-year-old female with "throat feels funny" Possible allergies.  She couldn't describe the feeling other than her throat feels funny. The question is what is going on?  Could it be related to her beta blocker?
74-year-old female with memory loss and a negative workup.  What is the dose of Aricept?
32-year-old exposed to chickenpox.  She had the first immunization but not the second.  Her question and mine:  "Since she didn't get the second shot, will she get a mild case or full blown case or what?"
What immunizations should this 45-year-old woman get before she goes to Viet Nam in two weeks?
What is the drug of choice for onychomycosis and would griseofulvin work since it is less expensive?
80-year-old man with shortness of breath, swollen leg, and history of pulmonary fibrosis.  "This reminds me of a patient with a calf vein thrombosis and the question was, 'What do you do with a calf vein thrombosis?'"
48-year-old man.  Another question is refractory hyperlipidemia (triglycerides 2000) and combinations of drugs, for example a statin with gemfibrozil.  "Some people use a low dose statin with gemfibrozil, some use high-dose statin with gemfibrozil, and of course there are all the warnings, but in a practical sense, what do you do?"
What are diencephalic seizures?
I had a 70ish-year-old woman who had some sort of neurologic event when she was visiting someone in the nursing home.  We got some labs and her free thyroxine was 0.7, normal is 0.8 to 1 and her thyroid stimulating hormone was 1.8 which is pretty low for that thyroxine.  So we spent 30 to 40 minutes using an online reference.
27-year-old woman.  "For someone on Ritalin for adult attention deficit disorder and depression, who has an elevated blood pressure and pulse, is there any alternative?
"The question is what is rhinomanometry and can we do it here.  I've never heard of it."
44-year-old woman.  What is the dose of Meridia?
What are the differences between iodine and Technetium thyroid scans?
I have one more question but I haven't figured out what to do with this lady or even what the question is.  She was an elderly woman referred by her dentist or ophthalmologist, I forget, but they said she didn't have much of a diastolic blood pressure.  We got 150/0 here.  So we were trying to figure out the differential diagnosis and what to do with that.
80-year-old woman.  I didn't look this up.  Just kind of used common sense.  "Is there any certain time you quit doing Papanicolaou smears?  80's or 70's?
8-year-old boy.  A question that sometimes comes up.  Of how much worth is the rectal exam in planning therapy for a child with encopresis, if you feel stool on the abdominal exam and the history is compatible with overflow incontinence?
1-year-old boy got chickenpox vaccine a couple of weeks ago and now has a red reaction at the site with red bumps.  So whether that was a reaction to the vaccine or what, I didn't know.
Ludiomil.  Patient came in to the emergency room on it.  "What in the heck is that?"
50-year-old woman with elevated serum calcium.  Our upper limit is about 10.1.  A year ago her calcium was about 9.5.  This year it was about 11 and a repeat was about 10.5.  Her alkaline phosphatase was normal.  The question is, "How aggressive do you get with people like that?"
Last night I saw a 1-year-old with Turner's syndrome, has puffy feet.  Mother asked me how long before the puffiness in feet goes away.
56 year-old female.  Under what circumstances do you stop estrogen?
Two kids going to India near Bombay.  What is the alternative to mefloquine if they are going to a chloroquin-resistant area?
"What is the complete workup for a meconium plug in a newborn?"
43-year-old woman in for a physical exam.  She's constipated.  She's on Wellbutrin and I think that can do it but I don't know how common that is.
"What is effect of magnesium on potassium?"
12-year-old boy with urinary frequency for several weeks.  When do you refer to a urologist?  How much urinary frequency is normal and can just be chalked up to nerves, with a normal urinalysis?  What's your threshhold for referring?
46-year-old woman.  "Look at this Papanicolaou smear.  It shows atypical squamous cells of uncertain significance but the comment is 'cannot rule out high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion.'  Normally we just repeat in 4 months for atypical squamous cells of uncertain significance, but what do you do with this comment?
I have a 30-year-old woman with Type 1 diabetes and when we started her on Lipitor, her sugars went up into the 300's.  She asked me if Lipitor could cause this and I didn't know, so looked it up in a reference.
33-year-old woman with vaginal bleeding had a positive pregnancy test.  "After a miscarriage, how soon should the beta-human chorionic gonadotrophin levels fall?"
Two patients with the same question regarding asymptomatic femoral bruits.  "Why does she have this bruit?  Do I need to look for peripheral vascular disease?"
6 and 1/2-year-old girl.  What's causing her ear pain?  She has a normal ear on exam and normal tympanogram.  Is it just eustachian tube dysfunction?
The physician received a lab result from his nurse.  Man over age 90.  "So this will be another question.  Just the evaluation of monoclonal gammopathy.
67-year-old female with hypertension.  Her question was, what do you do about widened pulse pressure.  Should you treat it any differently from just systolic hypertension?
What congenital syndrome would cause decreased hip mobility and a wide-based gait?
Neonate with methamphetamine exposure.  Potential adoptive parents wonder about long term outcomes of babies exposed to methamphetamine.
What are the dosage forms of Percocet?
"Dr. X (study physician's partner) have you ever treated Mycobacterium gordonae?"  "How do I treat this guy?  Where do I go with this guy?"
6-year-old here for attention-deficit-hyperactivity-disorder evaluation.  The current thinking is that 95% is history and we don't do labs, but it's always nice to get a refresher on that.  You always wonder, "Am I doing enough?  Am I not doing enough?"  (Meaning medical workup.)
Seven-month old had a second occurrence of an abscess next to the rectum, grape sized.  I (investigator) prompted the physician for what the question was.  He said, "What treatment is appropriate?"
The study physician mentioned this patient was a "puzzle."  I (investigator) asked if there was a question there.  She said the patient (46-year-old woman) had heel pain worse in the morning and on first standing to walk.  So I'm sure there are questions in there.  "What's causing her pain?"
Last night I saw a newborn that was delivered after a Mity-Vac times three and forceps which never really got used.  The question was how to evaluate this kid for a subgaleal hematoma.  Head ultrasound?  Computerized tomography?
Does a five-month-old with a ventricular septal defect meet criteria for respiratory syncytial virus vaccine (sic) (Synagis)?
13-year-old, former shaken baby with resultant spastic quadriplegia and cortically blind.  The concern is that after a suppository he gets red in the face and squeezes out all these little pebbles.  "Is an unprovoked stool every 3 days that bad?"  Does it lead to perforation?
Why did the nurse circle the head circumference?  "Is 48 centimeters big for a kids head?"  This was a 3-year, 7 1/2-month-old girl.
17-year-old female with sore throat and mono-like syndrome had elevated bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and alkaline phosphatase.  The question is, what is the etiology of this?
The mother of this 9-month-old with lipomeningomyelocele wanted to know if she is at high risk for future pregnancies for meningomyelocele and if she should take mega-dose folic acid (4 milligrams per day).
I saw a lady with what looked like a squamous cell carcinoma.  I excised it.  The path report said in the plane of the section there was no malignancy but there was cellular atypia.  I didn't know if I should excise further or what.
What is the Augmentin dose for this 16-kilogram girl with otitis media?  Actually I know that, but what I really need to know is what concentrations Augmentin syrup comes in.
65-year-old woman has not seen a physician in years.  Has cancer of the cervix, extending into vagina and parametrium and has edema of her legs.  Has back pain.  Bone scan and x-rays did not show metastases.  What is her prognosis?
42-year-old man.  Is he diabetic is the question.  He has impaired fasting glucose (114).  He had a 2-hour-glucose-tolerance test and his fasting was 109, one hour 212 (inadvertently done, I just wanted fasting and two hour), and 2 hour was 66.  Glycosylated hemoglobin was about 5.
63-year-old woman with a splenectomy years ago.  Does she need the Pneumovax every 5 years?
Two weeks ago I was deposed on a patient who was in a motor vehicle accident and had heart disease.  One of the questions the attorney asked was "Is there a source you can go to to see if someone with heart disease should be driving?"
16-year-old girl got a tattoo from an unlicensed tattoo artist 3-4 months ago.  Can a 16-year-old give consent for a human immunodeficiency virus test?
83-year-old female in for physical exam.  (1) When do you stop doing mammograms? (2) When do you stop getting DEXA (Dual Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry) scans? (3) When do you back off from aggressively treating cholesterol, Type 2 diabetes, coronary artery disease?
Today a patient called who wants to get pregnant.  22-year-old woman on nortriptylene.  So just managing depression in pregnancy.
51-year-old female with sinusitis.  What antibiotics can be used in a patient with myasthenia gravis?
"Is this herpes?"  Refers to a 20 year-old woman with genital lesions.
What is the lowest possible maintenance dose of prednisone for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that will do anything rather than just a placebo effect?  Is it just physiologic to give 1 milligram twice a day?
We had a kid, 5-year-old, with a fever of 104, headache, dizziness, hallucinations.  We thought it was the flu, but did a lumbar puncture, and the fluid was clear, looked good.  But had some trouble getting the fluid.  The next night he wouldn't walk, wouldn't lay down, crying with pain, would not bear weight.  So I called my partner and said,  "What do you think?"  "All right, what is this?"
The big debate now . . . we were always taught that percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomies make reflux worse, but a recent study seemed to show that reflux is not a contraindication to putting them in.
10-year-old boy.  What behavioral interventions are available and useful in treating this child who is currently skipping school, oppositional, with history of attention deficit disorder, fetal alcohol syndrome, oppositional defiant disorder, because whatever they're doing now is not working?
Phone call from mother to nurse regarding 2-year-old boy.  "How big does a kid need to be to go into a hot tub with water approximately 104 degrees?"
In people who have multiple somatic complaints, we're supposed to be suspicious that they're depressed.  But if you give selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are they just as likely to get better as patients with more traditional depression?  Should every older person with more than three complaints get a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor?
Is the coccyx fractured?  This was the question as the physician was looking at the x-ray of a young girl (about 7 years old).
80-year-old woman having total knee replacement in for preoperative physical exam.  I had to look up the different stages of melanoma.
45-year-old woman.  The study physician's partner called her in to see this patient's rash.  The question is, "What is this rash?"
27-year-old woman had a miscarriage (actually at 4-5 months) and has anticardiolipin antibodies.  My question was how to treat that.
60-year-old woman with gastric outlet obstruction clinically and on computerized tomography scan.  "Should she be admitted or should we get an EGD (esphogagogastroduodenoscopy) as an outpatient and work her up as an outpatient?"
81-year-old woman moved into a separate-structure retirement home and it had mold in the basement.  "What degrees of mold exposure and what molds can cause these kinds of symptoms that they talk about in this magazine (hemoptysis, memory loss)?"
Irregular menstrual bleeding is such a big problem.  For example, women on Depo-Provera with spotting or women on oral contraceptives with amenorrhea or irregular bleeding.
37-year-old on Triphasil with 10 days of bleeding starting 5 days before the placebo pills.  The study physician asked me (investigator) how I would treat this patient.
13-year-old girl with abdominal pain and depression.  I never put a 13-year-old on Xanax before, "so, I'll probably look it up later."  But then she started looking it up.  I (investigator) asked what the question was.  Was it the dose or . . . .  She (physician) said she's never used it in kids before.  She looked at a reference.  "Under 18 not recommended.  Well fine, but if I do want to use it, how do I prescribe it?
I've had two patients with squamous cell carcinomas of the skin recently.  Is there anything else I should do other than a total body skin exam?  And what kind of followup should they have?
35-year-old man with obsessive compulsive disorder.  The patient asked me, "What is the incidence of celiac disease?"
51-year-old woman with myasthenia gravis.  Another question with her is sweats.  Do you have to aim for something with her estrogen levels to control sweats and hot flashes?
Does Premphase work for birth control?
A patient called during the observation time to say she was worried about being on Baycol because she just heard on the radio that they were recalling it.  The physician asked his nurse to tell the patient, "Just stop it and we will research that a little bit."
55-year-old woman with diverticulosis.  Five years ago she had an abscess and part of her colon removed.  Fine.  Then recently she is having exacerbations every 3 or 4 or 5 months.  I sent her to the surgeon.  She's concerned and doesn't know what she should do.
55-year-old woman with blepharitis.  Hydrocortisone cream was no help.
This is more of a legal question.  26-year-old woman with drug-seeking characteristics.  Had to call our headquarters to see what protocol we have to follow to discharge her from our practice.
Steroids in biliary atresia.  This is an old question that I just wanted to revisit.  Is there anything new on this?
62-year-old man with cheilitis.  "What causes cheilitis and how do you treat it?  I'm always puzzled by that.
65-year-old woman with a blood pressure of 180/110.  Her ambulatory readings are better than that. "White coat hypertension is not supposed to be a concern, but now you hear little things that maybe it is a concern.  Well, is it or isn't it?"
Email question from study physician:  "A frail, thin, 82-year-old male presented to me with new onset of unilateral gynecomastia.  Now the question is: Do I have to pursue any further workup? Mammogram? Is this similar to the adolescent male unilateral gynecomastia that we sometimes see, or is this more worrisome?
The other thing I thought of . . .  We need somewhere . . . But maybe it's not available yet.  It's so new.  Alternative medicines that are not harmful.
What is the ideal body weight for a 5-foot, 8-inch, 26-year-old woman?
How strong is the evidence for giving prednisone for Bells Palsy?
I once had this Department of Transportation physical and the guy was on dialysis.  I refused to sign it.  I called up the Department of Transportation first though and said what are the rules about driving if you're on dialysis.  They just said, "It's up to you doc."  Not very helpful.
Last week I saw an 8-year-old girl with a bump in her groin.  "What is this?"  "I wasn't sure what that was or if I should refer."
I had a lady with rheumatoid arthritis.  "What is the minimum dose of steroids for maintenance, that I don't have to worry about osteoporosis or gastrointestinal side effects, that I should shoot for?"
I had a woman.  Celiac disease.  Is there a specific test to check this disease?
"Is there any interaction between atenolol and methyldopa?"
Over 90-year-old inpatient with severe congestive heart failure on Coumadin.  She was having shortness of breath, and it was paroxysmal, so I got a ventilation-perfusion scan and this showed high probability for pulmonary embolus.  The question is, should she get a filter.  I didn't do her leg veins, but even if they were normal, should she get a filter?
Should we anticoagulate this elderly woman with a thoracic aortic aneurysm, atrial fibrillation, and recent retinal artery occlusion?
35-year-old female with recurrent sinusitis despite steroid nasal spray, normal saline rinses, decongestants (Claritin D), and 3 surgeries for nasal polyps.  Is there an antibiotic solution for rinsing the nose and sinuses?
47-year-old woman has had raised nevi on her face since childhood.  The question was what is the best way to remove these without leaving a scar.
One-year-old with chronic renal insufficiency and failure to thrive.  Workup and management.  What specifically should I instruct the parents on in terms of meals and snacks and how much to offer at each meal?
This is a 72-year-old man on Lotrel 5/20, Atenolol 100 milligrams, Cardura 4 milligrams and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 milligrams.  I read recently that alpha blockers increase the risk of myocardial infarction and if that is the sole medication, you should switch, but they never say what to do if the patient is on a combination of medicines or if the alpha blocker is being used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (and working well for that).  So should you switch then, even if it's working?
12-year-old boy with posterior malleolar fracture.  "What do I do with this?"
32-year-old nulliparous female.  Amenorrhea (no galactorrhea) for 4 months.  Pregnancy test negative, did workup, prolactin elevated to 90.  (1)  What is the recommended further evaluation of this elevated prolactin?  (2)  Leave it alone?  Image? (3)  If she doesn't want to get pregnant, can I use the elevated prolactin as a reliable form of birth control and tell the patient she doesn't need to use condoms or be on the pill?  (4)  How often to check prolactin level?
I saw a 6-month-old last week, and the mother asked if she should be on fluoride supplements.  They live in the country and use well water.  I didn't know.
"How would you classify uterine prolapse and when would you refer?"
Atypical presentations of sciatica.  Patient has sciatic pain.  Better when sitting (physician smiled indicating this was atypical).  Better with lying down, which makes sense.  I don't know what that is.
5-year-old with psychiatric issues (attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder and lots of family history).  The child has a sensitivity to light.  He doesn't want to open his eyes.  I looked in a reference and found nothing.
"Colon cancer screening.  I had sent one of my 43-year-old patients to gastroenterology for screening colonoscopy because her father had colon cancer in his 60's.  They sent her back, saying we should start screening at age 50."
Question e-mailed to me by study physician between study visits:  One of my patients stopped his Lipitor because it caused dry eyes. I still don't know if that was the cause.
32-year-old man chews tobacco.  Does the patch help to get him off?  Does the gum help?
5-year-old boy with autism.  The one thing I couldn't find much on . . . Dad was asking about chelation therapy such as with EDTA (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid).  "Has anyone used empiric EDTA?"
Three-week-old girl.  I just wanted to be sure I wrote the right dose of Zantac.
4-day-old white male, newborn in the hospital, I delivered.  He was just about to go home and the nurses said, by the way, he's been tachypneic for the last hour or two, with respiratory rates of 60 to 70.  The question was, can tachypnea result from laryngomalacia.
A woman complaining of halitosis.  Had it a long time.  Her (the patient's) question was, "Anything we can do about it?"
Three-month-old.  "What is the spontaneous resolution rate of oral thrush?"
"Thyroid and weight fluctuations -- fact or fiction?"  I think if you have Graves disease you can lose weight but I don't believe you gain weight with hypothyroidism.  "What's the correlation?"
4-year-old girl with a rash.  What is this rash?
70-year-old man with diabetes and transient ischemic attack-like symptoms.  I don't know what's going on with him.
Mother wanted to borrow the microwave to microwave the bottle of formula.  The nurse and physician advised her to heat the bottle with warm water from the sink instead.  Later the physician said, "You get hot spots don't you?"
My patient was convinced she had hypothyroidism.  But her labs were normal.  The thyroid stimulating hormone was normal but at the upper end of normal.  I called Dr. X (endocrinologist) and said, "Now what do I do?"
Mastodynia.  I (investigator) prompted her for what the question was.  I suggested, "What is the workup and treatment for mastodynia?"  She (study physician) said, "Well, there really is no workup after you've eliminated caffeine.  Once you've eliminated caffeine, what else is there?"
19-year-old thin Type 1 diabetic inpatient with severe episodes of right upper quadrant pain.  Normal ultrasound and upper endoscopy but her HIDA (hydroxyiminodiacetic acid) scan showed "barely visible gallbladder" and poor "ejection fraction."  The question is what to do with this HIDA (hydroxyiminodiacetic acid) scan result.  Could being NPO (nothing by mouth) affect the HIDA (hydroxyiminodiacetic acid) scan results?
3-week-old with intussusception.  Now seems to have a formula intolerance.  Is there any association between formula intolerance and intussusception?
3-year-old boy.  Bullous myringitis.  I'm curious to know if there is any need to give different treatment from the usual otitis media.
74-year-old man in for physical exam.  He had some weight loss and a mild anemia (hemoglobin 11).  Ferritin was 2000.  I looked up the causes of a high ferritin.
Two nights ago I had a newborn with a congenital nevus, 4 millimeter diameter on the forehead.  "What to do?"
80-year-old man with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and pneumonia grew Moraxella catarrhalis in the sputum.  I had to look up, what is Branhamella catarrhalis and how is it different from Moraxella.  What is what and make sure I was treating with the right stuff.
49-year-old woman with hypertension, hypokalemia, not hirsutism.  I (study physician) called the endocrinologist and basically said, "What do I do?"  I (investigator) suggested at the same time she said this, "What was the question, was it 'What's the next step with the workup?' "  She said, "Yes, that would be the way to phrase that."
25-year-old woman in for a physical exam.  Her mother and grandmother both have breast cancer.  She asked me when her first screen should be.   The question is when should you start doing mammograms in this situation.
With polio vaccine, do they need a total of 4 as long as one is after 4 years of age?  Or let's see, how did it go?  She got 4 inactivated polio vaccines but the question was, is it that you need a total of 4 or does 1 have to be after 4 years old?
I have a lady with Graves disease (33 years old).  She was trying to get pregnant when she was diagnosed with Graves.  So the question is, what is the best treatment for Graves in someone who is trying to get pregnant, and, if we use radioactive iodine, how long does she need to wait?
Four-year-old boy with a fractured clavicle.  How to treat a fractured clavicle?
If you are on 3 medications for hypertension and you're not controlled, do you add a fourth medication or do you take away some of the others and change medications?
A former 28-week-premature baby is now 15 months old and got Synagis last year.  The question is whether he should get it again this year.
I just need to pull up the Centers for Disease Control . . . the Centers for Disease Control came out with immunization guidelines . . . having a runny nose is not a contraindication to immunization, having a fever less than a certain degree is not.  This baby has a runny nose.  I was trying to explain it to the mother but I just need to look that up again.
38-year-old man.  Heel pain. I (investigator) asked what the question was -- was it "What is the best treatment for heel pain?"  He said, "What is the best treatment that the literature has shown to be most effective and most cost effective."
40-year-old guy with an ileal conduit.  What is an ileal conduit?
"What does anagen mean?  I haven't heard that word."
In this patient who is not responding to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for superficial thrombophlebitis, what is round two?
I (investigator) saw the study physician open a reference.  I said, "What's the . . . ?"  She said, "I'm just looking for doses for miglitol."
I looked up penile rashes in one of my references.  I saw a 40-year-old man with a purplish rash on the shaft of his penis.
Six-year-old girl.  For anxiety disorder in kids, is Luvox indicated?  "What do you use?"
I have seen many people around here giving Advair and Singulair for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease but no asthma.  Maybe they know something I don't about this, but I don't think so.
13-year-old male.  Popping and cracking in TM joints for 6 months.  No pain, no limitation of movement.  Does anything need to be done?
The study physician wrote this:  "8-year-old male.  How do you get a hemotympanum without trauma?  Do you treat it?  How do you treat it?  Prognosis?
Newborn.  What are the latest immunization guidelines on hepatitis B virus?  Specifically, do we have to give it in the newborn period before leaving the hospital?
79-year-old man.  In May 1999 his prostate-specific antigen was 3.8.  Now, two and a half years later, it's about 7.  So the question is what to do with this patient.
Do you treat a 50-year-old gentleman, recently returned from Africa with Blastocystis Hominis?
50-year-old man with psoriasis.  "What size does Dovonex ointment come in and what is the dose?"
I have a 65-year-old woman with Type 2 diabetes who was new to me 7 months ago.  The Food and Drug Administration recently said not to use glitazones with insulin because of the risk of congestive heart failure.  But now her glycosylated hemoglobin is better and her insulin requirement is down to 40 in the morning and 32 at night.  So what do you do with that information?
The physician said, "That's my question.  If the glycosylated hemoglobin is good and the 3-day monitor shows wide swings, would it be even better if the monitor was a flat line rather than up and down?  If the lows are averaged with the highs, is that just as good as having less wide swings?"
3-year-old girl losing her hair and becoming mean, biting behavior.  "Is there a specific reason for this?  I'm not sure exactly what's causing this."
The study physician wrote this:  "64-year-old female.  How does grapefruit interact with Lipitor?
Nine-month-old girl with excoriated diaper area due to diarrhea.  This is a recurring question.  "What else can you try?"
Here's a question that I looked up.  Seven-year-old adopted patient from Russia, all records are in Russian, and they have not been translated, but parents thought he had had the BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin) vaccine.  We did a tuberculin skin test, and it was positive at 15 to 17 millimeters.  "Do we treat it?"
66-year-old man who says, "I have a sulfur smell out of the blue sometimes."  "What's it mean?"
Six-and-three-quarters-year-old in first grade.  What do you do for selective mutism?
5-year-old boy with intoeing.  He examined the child and as he left the room he told the father he needed to check something.  He told me (investigator) "I've just got to look at the normal angles.  I forgot what they are."
53-year-old woman.  What would cause leg cramps that involve the entire leg and last one and a half hours?
Interesting patient (29-year-old woman), saw her as a gestational onset diabetic but now, post partum, she has Type I diabetes.  Her c-peptide was about 0.5 nanograms/milliliter (normal 1-5) and her serum insulin was about 2 (normal 6 to 27).  "Is this definite Type I diabetes?"
I (investigator) asked if he had to look up anything in a book in the last few days.  He said, "I had a question about Hepatitis B.  Recommendations for household contacts of carriers."
How do you treat the newborn when the mother is Group B streptococcus positive?
21-year-old.  What to do about bacterial vaginitis in the first trimester of pregnancy?
What is the best treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease (frequent spitting) in a 3 1/2-month-old?
5-year-old boy.  Luckily this kid can take pills but "which stimulants come in liquid form?
Newborn.  Thanatophoric dwarfism diagnosed by prenatal ultrasound and confirmed with amniocentesis.  Almost always lethal (pulmonary hypoplasia).  Question:  How aggressively should we treat at birth?
Treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis.  A nurse practitioner was looking at a reference and mentioned using once daily dosing for amoxicillin.  I (investigator) said, "So the question is 'Is this a legitimate treatment?'"  He said, "Yes."
This woman was seen yesterday in the emergency room.  She had numbness in her left hand and foot.  Her CT scan showed a lacunar infarct, age indeterminate, at the genu of the internal capsule.  I guess my question is, if it is a new stroke clinically, do I admit her at this point?
"Overweight woman having more hot flashes.  All the specifics about that.  For example, does it take longer to get over them if you are overweight?  How long does it take to get over them when you stop hormones?"
Who with polycystic ovary syndrome should get metformin?
10-year-old boy with attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder.  "Is there less appetite suppression with Adderall than Ritalin and Concerta?"
Have you seen this?  (Study physician handed me (investigator) a letter from an orthopedist which told about a new treatment for low back pain called the DRS (Decompression Reduction Stabilization)/Spina System.  "I'd be interested to know what the orthopedic department at Iowa . . . ask them what they think of that."
47-year-old woman with rash, no better.  The question is what is this rash from and how to treat it?
54-year-old man taking flax seed oil.  "I have to think of what that's for.  I'd have to look that up."
58-year-old female.  Do you need to give a trial of nonsteroidals before you inject a shoulder or is an injection a first line treatment?
3-year-old boy.  Alternating Tylenol and ibuprofen.  Is it efficacious?  Have there been any randomized controlled trials?
"Osteopenia in males.  Do you treat it the same way as in women?"
One-year-old with previous Salmonella enteritis, now asymptomatic but followup stool culture positive for Salmonella.  Should she be treated?
28-year-old woman had a deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolus with her first pregnancy.  I diagnosed her with prothrombin mutation.  Now she is on her second pregnancy.  "What kind of anticoagulation does she need?  Really the question was unfractionated heparin versus low molecular weight heparin."
"I should look this up but . . . .  I have a lady with terrible trigeminal, first division pain.  I'm going to start Famvir, thinking that it's zoster.  My question is, should we also give steroids?
What is causing this chronic cough?  Could this be cystic fibrosis?  Should we get a sweat chloride?  Should he go to a pulmonologist?
Two year and 10-month-old boy weighs about 65 pounds and is about 42 inches tall.  We did a bone age and the bone age was between 4 and 4 1/2 years old.  The question is, is that significantly different from what it should be for this age and what should we do about it?
Two-year-old with iron deficiency anemia.  Do they still make Feosol spansules?
54-year-old woman had a cervical polyp removed, continues to bleed, referred to gynecologist.  "Are cervical polyps ever malignant?"
14-year-old boy with mallet finger, the fracture fragment was pulled down away from the phalanx.  I (investigator) said, "And the question was . . . ?"  She said, "What do I do?"
We had a baby who's mother broke out with Zoster a couple of days after she was born and the baby had a couple of skin lesions too.  The question was what to do with the baby.
We see a lot of people with depression.  Many of them see psychiatrists.  They put the patient on lithium.  They may fail to check a lithium level.  As a primary care provider, how often do you check the lithium level?
28-year-old obstetric patient with a rash.  What is the rash?
I forgot the name of the antihistamine eye drop.  31-year-old woman with allergic conjunctivitis.
5-year-old girl with tinea capitis.  What is the dose of griseofulvin?
Next is a huge question for me.  Painful cracks in thick skin on the feet.  How to treat this?
Referring to low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol in a 77 year-old woman, "How far do you push them down?"  You know with the National Cholesterol Education Program Guidelines, all these patients had heart disease or diabetes, but what do you do with these patients who haven't had their heart attack yet and they don't have diabetes?  She's on Zocor 20 milligrams a day and her low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol is approximately 115.
My question was, "Can we treat a four-week old with griseofulvin?"
68-year-old white female presented with abdominal pain for over two months.  Eventually went to exploratory laparotomy where disseminated ovarian cancer was found.  Question:  What role, if any, would a CA-125 (cancer antigen 125) play in detecting this earlier?
There is an old lady (80 years old) coming this afternoon that you won't be here for, but I always have a question with her.  She complains of "excessive phlegm."  I never know what to do with that complaint or how to work it up.
31-year-old woman in for annual exam.  Is Saint John's Wort helpful for premenstrual syndrome?
The mother of this 2-year-old boy says he is drinking 10 ounces of milk per day.  "How much milk one should drink per day?"
Five-year-old twins.  Dichorionic, diamnionic.  Mom asked, "Can't that egg split in the fallopian tube and then be dichorionic, diamnionic?"
"Dizziness, I don't know."  Smoker, intermittent dizziness.  I sent him to a neurologist with the question, "What's the cause of this dizziness?"
Three-year-old girl possibly sexually abused by adolescent boy.   Physician to Department of Human Services worker:  "With him being an adolescent, is this a Department of Human Services case or do I go to the police to report it?"
Should ibuprofen, used on an as-needed basis, be stopped if the patient is on aspirin?
Does ear taping work?  (His partner asked him this and he didn't know.)
What is the prognosis for endometrioid cancer?
I checked to see if there were any interactions between iron and thyroxine.
21-year-old female.  I never know what to do with patients who complain of vaginal discharge and on exam there seems to be more discharge than usual, but all you see under the microscope are white cells, no clue cells or other apparent cause.
7-year-old boy with enuresis.  Desmopressin.  How long do you give it before switching to something else and what do you do?  The books say to taper off, but if the enuresis starts again and you go back to desmopressin, how long do you keep trying?
Two-month-old female, sleeping in bed with mother.  Mother rolled over onto her side onto baby's right arm, today she is not moving the right arm and is fussy if it is touched.  I just requested an x-ray.  "If it's normal, what do I do?"
I have a patient.  Her diastolic blood pressure is 20.  Her systolic blood pressure is 160.  She's already on three antihypertensives.  I heard about the J-curve.  What do I do?
53-year-old man.  He has had a febrile illness, and, before the fever, he had arthralgias and neck stiffness.  I can't remember the transient symptoms of the encephalitis virus going around New York City now (Eastern Equine Encephalitis).
This is another question.  65-year-old man, smoker, doesn't take care of himself.  Pressured by his wife.  This private screening service showed that he most probably has blockage of at least one of his vessels.  (The screening service is a computerized tomography scan of the heart, marketed directly to patients.)  "What should I do?"  I didn't ask for this.  Do you know how much work this is?
"We had a question." The study physician said this as he came out of the exam room with a resident.  "The safety of lansoprazole in pregnancy."
8-year-old boy with perianal fistula, not healing, suspect inflammatory bowel disease.  What is the incidence of inflammatory bowel disease in siblings?
6-week-old not tracking well.  "I'm wondering about developmental delay.  What is the differential diagnosis of developmental delay?"
This is probably unanswerable but I have a 72-year-old woman who 3 or 4 weeks ago had a subendocardial myocardial infarction.  She had already had some trouble with dizziness, but now she dropped her systolic blood pressure on standing (50 points) and was rehospitalized with chest pain.  "I just wonder about this orthostatic hypotension and coronary spasm.  Then what do you do?  What other testing?  And how to treat orthostatic hypotension?"
10-year-old girl has prominent painful distal ulnas.  We thought these were cysts (my partner and I).
Young lady on oral contraceptives, obese, had a pulmonary embolus.  "How long to continue Coumadin?"
What is the treatment for tri-iodothyronine thyrotoxicosis?
What is the dose of cholestyramine for diarrhea?
57-year-old white female.  Factor V Leiden?  Does it increase the risk of coronary disease?  Should you screen for it?
Similac Advance and Enfamil Lipil.  Docosahexaenoic acid and arachidonic acid.  I (investigator) prompted him for the question.  He said, "Is it really needed or is there an added benefit?
"OK, do you have to wean Strattera?  I don't know."
The study physician wrote this:  "72-year-old female.  What is the optimal initial medication strategy for Parkinson's?  How high do you go on Sinemet before you add additional drugs?"
A 50-year-old woman asked me if she could be a surrogate mother.
33-year-old woman on birth control pills.  She bleeds appropriately at the time of her periods but also bleeds at other times.  If she was on a lower estrogen pill, like if I switched her from TriLevlen to Allesse, would that help?  The whole issue of how to deal with abnormal vaginal bleeding pre- and post-menopausal is a question.
54-year-old woman with chest pain.  What is the sensitivity and specificity of adenosine thallium and dobutamine echocardiogram in women compared to men?
"I went over the list to see if I had any questions from this morning.  A child came in for tonsillar problems.  8-year-old female.  Wondered about indications for tonsillectomy.
22 year-old man.  Does Ritalin raise blood pressure?
6-month-old with prolonged diarrhea.  We got stool cultures today.  The question is, What do I start her on while I wait for the culture?
35-year-old man.  Gynecomastia in males.  My question is, is there any way of clinically knowing that it is benign, so that I would not have to refer?
This is a little girl with chronic developmental problems and a seizure disorder.  She's had an increase in her seizures.  When we increase her medicine, she gets tired.  When we decrease it, she gets more seizures.  The question is what to do next.
Four-week old.  What is the dose of Diflucan for tinea capitis in an infant?
37-year-old female inpatient with acute tubular necrosis and sepsis.  She was vomiting.  "Can serosal implants (eg from metastases or endometriosis) cause vomiting without radiographic signs of bowel obstruction?"
Tuberculin skin test on someone who's had a BCG (bacille Calmette-Guerin) vaccine, adopted from India, thinks she had the BCG (bacille Calmette-Guerin).  This reference is better than it used to be.  "But it would be nice if there were clear guidelines on this:  If the vaccine was given more than five years previously and the skin test is positive, do this."  How long does the skin test stay positive after the vaccine?
82-year-old female.  "That would be an interesting question -- if we know what improves survival in patients with diastolic dysfunction."
I had a pregnant patient on Synthroid and I called Dr. X (endocrinologist).  He said to find out why she has hypothyroidism because it can make a difference to the baby.  I (investigator) asked, "What was the question when you called Dr. X?"  She said, "How do I manage thyroid replacement in pregnancy?  What laboratory tests do I need to follow?
Referring to low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol in a 77 year-old woman, "How long do you push them down?"  Meaning, at what age should you no longer treat elevated low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol?
31-month old twin with developmental delay.  I wonder if there have been twin studies on autism.
What is the dose of bromocriptine (Parlodel)?
Is there any way to get people to come to their appointments and monitor their blood pressure?
I (investigator) saw her looking at her handheld computer and asked what the question was.  She said, "Dosing for drops for otitis externa."
I asked him what he was looking up.  He said, "whether to give drops or elixir acetaminophen to a 1-year-old for their immunizations and what dose."
We have an allergist that swears that generic prednisone is not as good as Deltasone.  I'd like to know if there is any science behind that.
Over 90-year-old with change in bowel habits (occasional diarrhea) and guaiac positive stool on exam today.  The physician said, "What would you do?" asking me (investigator).
13-year-old boy with lymphoma had a 10-pound weight loss.  Increased amylase was the only abnormal lab.  He was still growing appropriately for his age (still within the appropriate percentile lines).  The question was, "How aggressive should I get?"
"With chickenpox, when do you use Acyclovir?"
22-year-old woman complains that her heart feels like it's jumping out of her chest, light headed, dizzy, suffocating feeling, mother said she had a hole in her heart.  Sounds like anxiety.  I got thyroid functions, but my question is, "Do you go as far as to get a Holter monitor on these patients?
Is there anything to prevent sebaceous cysts from occurring?  Is it a duct that gets blocked?
What I'm looking up is if there is any association between iron overload and HIV (human-immunodeficiency virus).
43-year-old woman with bladder symptoms.  The urinalysis showed "glitter cells."  "I have no idea what that is."
47-year-old man.  What is the significance of a low free testosterone and normal gonadotrophins in a male with erectile dysfunction?  Shouldn't you have high gonadotrophins if the free testosterone is low?  Do these people all have pituitary insufficiency?
Five-year-old unable to swallow Adderall XR.  "Can Adderall XR be crushed and mixed and still be extended release?"
"Is Bextra better or worse than other COX-2 (cyclooxygenase-2) inhibitors?
He's got night sweats along with a lot of other symptoms.  But the only concerning one is night sweats.  I (investigator) prompted:  "So what would you look up?  What is the question?"  He said, "Any other unusual causes that I might need to check for and any symptomatic treatment?"
We had a case of rickets.  12-month-old boy.  I (investigator) asked what the question was.  He said, "Why is he failing to thrive?"  Part of the question was how do you work up possible rickets.
18-month-old male with cervical and supraclavicular adenopathy that persisted for 6 months.  I get this a lot.  Concerns from the mother.  I (investigator) prompted, "What is the question?"  He said, "I'm looking for more guidelines.  Information in the books is meager."
There was a patient (50-year-old man) with left bundle branch block (questionably new or old) who had chest pain.  I set him up for a stress echocardiogram, but the cardiologist said he could not do the stress echocardiogram due to the left bundle branch block.  He wanted to do a pharmacologic stress echocardiogram (rather than exercise).  "Why is that?"
What is the dose of Klonopin?
11-year-old boy.  Downs.  My number 1 question is, do patients with Down Syndrome . . . Are they more sensitive to adverse effects of anticonvulsants?
37-year-old female inpatient with acute tubular necrosis and sepsis.  She is anemic.  The question is, "Does anything impair erythropoietin secretion other than chronic renal failure?"
11-year-old with a wart on the hand.  The question is "Is this a dermatology referral or we should do something else here or what?"
38-year-old man with sweaty feet and keratin build-up on heels.  The physician started looking in a reference.  I (investigator) asked her to phrase the question.  She said she was just looking up keratolysis.  I said, 'Could you say the question is "What are the characteristics of keratolysis?'"  She said yes, you could say that.
If you have a patient who had a coronary bypass or any heart surgery, say 10 years ago, when do you do a stress test to see how they are doing?  This patient is doing fine but when should you follow up?
I caught her looking on her bulletin board and said this may be a question.  She said, "No, I can never remember the potency of topical steroids."  I said, "So the question is . . . ?"  She said, "The question is what can I use that's fairly high potency?"
17-year-old girl with Turner's syndrome and chest pain, thought to be secondary to anxiety, seen in emergency room.  Parents say she sometimes has hallucinations.  Should she be on antipsychotic medications?
Which form of calcium is best to prevent osteoporosis?  For $60 a month you can get sea shell calcium.  Which is absorbed better?
70-year-old woman with herpetic disease of the eye.  (1) How much and after how long will steroid use will cause immunosuppression, (2) Can steroid inhalers cause immunosuppression?
Do you need to monitor liver function tests with griseofulvin or terbinafine?
"This lady wanted to know if Centrum with Ginseng interacts with any of her medications."
27-year-old man with Type 1 diabetes.  The magnetic resonance imaging showed a thalamic stroke.  The erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 90.  "That kept troubling me."  I don't know what else to do.  Is it from the diabetes?  Is it from the anemia?  Is that the reason for his erythrocyte sedimentation rate or should I work it up further and how to work it up?
17-year-old with institutional colon, rolling on the floor, screaming.  They gave a soap suds enema but that was no help.  The home was calling the physician for advice.  The physician said, "What's the best treatment for institutional colon?"
49-year-old woman.  Single area of herpes zoster, less than 48 hours old.  Since it's so small, should I treat her?
49-year-old with obsessive-compulsive disorder.  She's on Luvox 100 milligrams.  I looked on an online resource to see if it can cause someone to be "buzzed or juiced up" because she seemed overly animated today.
"Seven-year-old girl with grade II reflux and mild constipation.  In attempting to treat the constipation, is olive oil or vegetable oil just as effective as, or an alternative to mineral oil?"
Can we use Remicade in ulcerative colitis?  Has anybody shown it to be effective?
63-year-old female on tamoxifen to prevent breast cancer.  So the question is whether this is justified to have her on the tamoxifen and if so, how long should she be on it.  The other question is whether tamoxifen can cause low platelets.
Phone call from radiologist.  "Your 77-year-old patient has a category 5 mammogram.  These old calcifications look like sclerosing adenosis."  The physician said, "Isn't that premalignant?"
What do you do for mild vesicoureteral reflux?  What kind of followup do you do and how often?  Do you repeat it (the voiding cystourethrogram)?
A physician's assistant asked the obstetrician (next to study physician) what would be a good antianxiety drug in this patient who is 4-months postpartum and breast feeding.
I had an elderly patient with a cerebrovascular accident.  New imaging studies.  Which is better: computerized tomography or magnetic resonance imaging?  When to use contrast and when not to use contrast?
89-year-old man with end-stage renal disease, dyspnea, and fluid overload on chest film.  On Lasix 200 milligrams twice a day.  "I have a question. Why isn't he responding to oral . . . you know?
What percentage of doctors fail to check renal function one week after starting an ACE (angiotensin converting enzyme) inhibitor and are now in jail for malpractice?
13-year-old premenarchal female with scoliosis and a 22 degree curvature at T5 to T10.  "Should the patient be followed in a few months or referred to orthopedics?"
Are there any real differences among the nonsedating antihistamines?
This is a 7-month-old girl who was bitten on the face and hand by an 18-month-old at the same day care center.  "What do you do about the day care situation where this happened?  How do you prevent it?"
Twelve-year-old boy with proximal humerus fracture.  I (investigator) asked if the question was, "What's the treatment for this?"  He said yes.  "I was pretty sure he didn't need surgery.  I just wondered if he needed anything more than a sling."
Woman in her 20's with a mole on her arm, scared of needles.  I'm looking up EMLA (Eutectic Mixture of Local Anesthetics).  I (investigator) asked her, "What is the question?  The dose or . . . "  She answered, "The dose and how long to apply it before giving the xylocaine injection."
Two-month-old male presented to the emergency room two nights ago.  One question was the hemoglobin.  Don't know if I could explain this through the physiologic nadir or if it was related to autoimmune anemia with transfer of antibodies through the placenta of if it was the anemia of his illness.
50-year-old man with hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia.  The cholesterol is better but his triglycerides are still high.  The question is should we put him on a triglyceride-specific drug along with Lipitor and risk muscle weakness?  It's a style point.
Woman in her 90's with pulmonary fibrosis and Clostridium difficile colitis, not taking anything by mouth.  I had to remind myself that Flagyl given intravenously would still cover Clostridium difficile.
5-year-old.  At what frequency should you see kids back when they have attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder?
Can you give the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine and chickenpox vaccine at the same time?  She asked her nurse who said yes.
52-year-old man.  People with knee pain and magnetic resonance imaging.  Has somebody . . . ?  "At 6 weeks if he's still not better and the x-ray is normal, is this cost effective at this time to do a magnetic resonance imaging?"
What do you do with a patient who refuses investigation or treatment but has pain?
79-year-old woman with irritation in the vaginal area, probably atrophic vaginitis.  I tried an estrogen pessary and cream but they were no help.  The question was "what other approaches can we take?"
40-year-old male.  The patient asked me, "Do you think I will ever be able to get off hyperlipidemia medications?  How will we know when to stop them?"
80-year-old man.  I had to look up bacillus (gram positive rod) bacteremia.  There I was just trying to find the etiology or anything that would be associated with bacillus bacteremia.
2-year-old boy who has some autistic features.  The main question was . . . mother says she tried a gluten-free diet.  She didn't think it worked, he became more irritable because he likes pasta.  She came right out and said, "What do you think about the diet, Doc?"
This 2-month-old was delivered at 34 and 2/7 weeks gestation.  For preterm infants, is it now routine to give them something to prevent respiratory syncytial virus during the winter months?
86-year-old woman on Coumadin.  What's the dose of Lovenox?
Last week I had a 3-week-old boy with pyloric stenosis.  I looked up pyloric stenosis to see if ultrasound is still the test of choice.
What are the options for treating a streptococcal pharyngitis if you also want to cover a urinary tract infection?
This guy is getting dental work and has a canker sore (aphthous ulcer).  There's a cream for canker sores, Kenalog in Orabase.  "How often do you use it?"
"Are there any cardiac contraindications to Strattera?"
Leg cramps and use of quinine.  Two questions.  Is there literature to support the use of quinine?  Also why do leg cramps occur and how do you address them?
A family came in with a 5 or 6-year-old boy who had autistic features.  They wanted to know if it was related to immunizations, especially the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine.
Two-week old.  Do you stop breast feeding for mastitis?
Eleven-year-old boy with Down syndrome.  Sleep apnea can increase the thyroid stimulating hormone but by how much and is that because night time growth hormone suppresses and overlaps somehow with the rest of the pituitary?  "I wanted to know if there was a special antibody I should get."
Last week I saw a 4-year-old girl with shingles on the left leg.  I didn't know what it was and I had the dermatologist take a look.  He did a Tzanck preparation and it was positive.  So the question was, "What is this rash?" and then the best way to treat it.
A woman with mild hirsutism.  "When do I need to do a dexamethasone suppression test?"  "At what levels of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate do you consider an adrenal tumor?"
Two-year-old girl with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia controlled on propranolol, broke through over the weekend.  What should we do with her medications?
I saw an 8-year-old boy who had intermittent asymptomatic swelling of one knee.  No trauma.  It would just swell up out of the blue and then go down.  The question is what would cause this.
Is it really true that treating streptococcal sore throat with antibiotics does not make the symptoms go away any quicker?
85-year-old woman admitted 2 weeks ago with syncope.  Nonsmoker.  Has a mass in her lung.  The question was, would you just go to surgery, or try bronchoscopy and that kind of thing first.  And the differential diagnosis too.  No other primary cancers in her.  The thought was, since she had the syncope and some palpitations, could this be a carcinoid?
What is the dose of Augmentin XR?
Is there any difference in how often you should wash the hair in black kids?
41-year-old woman with recurrent thrush.  Can it just keep growing on her retainer or do we need to do some kind of workup?
50-year-old woman here for a complete physical exam.   What's the best way to taper someone off an estrogen/progesterone combination?
30-year-old woman had trichomonas on Pap smear.  I had to look up the dose of Flagyl for Trichomonas.
What is the best way to remove seborrheic keratoses?
Do you need to do anything else when somebody develops secondary enuresis, besides a urinalysis?
"I have a question.  You know how some kids pop a lot when you pick them up?  I (physician) said, 'Well, I don't know but it's probably normal.'"  I (investigator) asked later to confirm that she (study physician) meant popping joints and she did.
I (investigator) saw him looking in a book on his shelf and asked what the question was.  He said, "Dose of penicillin for streptococcus . . . I always get confused on Bicillin . . ."  I (investigator) said, "The issue is . . . ?"  He said, "What type?
30-year-old woman with multiple sclerosis now has fever, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and rash (confluent macular).  "Are steroids appropriate in a multiple sclerosis exacerbation that may be due to a viral illness?"
This lady is kind of a puzzle.  44-year-old woman.  She has fibrosing mediastinitis.  She had a jugular-atrial bypass.  But I really don't know how to follow that (the graft surgery).
I had a question about enuresis in adults.  I told them to get him up two to three times at night, and not give a lot of fluids before he goes to bed, and they tried that, but it didn't work.
Why do we treat goopy eyes with antibiotics when we don't treat goopy noses with antibiotics?
48-year-old woman with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and thick sputum.  I got her a suction device but I just wanted to know if any of the anticholinergic drugs, such as benztropine, would help with her oral secretions.
A large-for-gestational-age baby was delivered by a family physician who consulted my partner because of a low calcium.  My partner asked me why the calcium wasn't coming up even after we gave intravenous replacement.  I said I didn't know.
This is a woman who I think has benign positional vertigo.  "How would you prove that this is not a central problem?"
What is the generic name of Protonix?
7-year-old boy with clinical gastro-esophageal reflux disease.  What is appropriate to do first:  ranitidine or omeprazole?"
Approximately 60-year-old man with two-month history of toe lesions.  "What is causing these lesions on the ends of his toes?"
84-year-old woman with a leukemoid reaction.  Persistent white blood counts in the 20,000's.  No sign of infection.  So the question was, what is the evaluation and causes of leukemoid reactions and what is the definition.
Recommendation for treatment duration of uncomplicated cystitis?
70-year-old man with a twelfth thoracic vertebra compression fracture.  Is he a candidate for vertebroplasty (where they inject something in the vertebral body to increase the height)?
What is the dose of compazine spansules?
62-year-old man.  He was healthy until 6 months ago when he moved to a new house and now he has asthma.  He called today saying he is worse, just after getting off a course of Prednisone.  "I don't know what should I do with him."
I saw a 57-year-old man this morning with non-specific abdominal pain.  I couldn't feel his right testicle.  So, my question was if an adult that has an undescended testicle that hasn't been recognized, does it have a malignant potential?
Old folks with otitis externa or other ear problems.  Cipro or Floxin drops are preferred because of less damage to the auditory nerve than Cortisporin or Neomycin.  Is that a marketing gimmick or is that real?
What is the dose of Zyrtec for a 3-year-old?
OK, here's one.  70-year-old woman.  Had an episode of diverticulitis recently.  Had a colonoscopy 2 years ago.  Does she need it repeated?
62-year-old woman with seborrheic keratosis on her leg, in for cryotherapy.  "I don't know how to open this."  She could not get the cryo bottle open to get to the liquid nitrogen.
Two-year-old girl with intermittent screaming due to back pain (she reaches around and grabs her back) going on for the last month.  "I have no idea what's wrong with her."
8-year-old was on Paxil, Adderall, Clonidine, and Trazadone.  She stopped everything cold turkey and was started on Zyprexa.  Two days later she came into the emergency room hypertensive (135/95) and tachycardic and tremulous.  I called child psychiatry at a tertiary center and the question was, "What do I do?"
Two-year-old girl going on a trip to Brazil with her mother.  Mother said, "Does she really need the hepatitis A vaccine?"  The question for me was, how important is it really.
How much does the chickenpox vaccine cost?
79-year-old man with facial palsy secondary to a stroke.  He had mild wheezing on exam.  How do you do pulmonary function testing on someone with facial palsy who is unable to make a tight seal with his lips?
63 year-old woman got worse on Fosamax (decreased bone mass).  "Would you do another bone density scan and if so when, knowing that there is not much else to do for her?"
Should children with meningococcal disease get the vaccine for Neisseria meningitidis?  I have a 2-year-old in the hospital now with meningococcal sepsis.  He's doing well but does he need the meningococcal vaccine?
What are the indications for plain x-rays or magnetic resonance imaging in patients with low back pain?
49-year-old man with diabetes, congestive heart failure, and steatohepatitis.  "Can patients with steatohepatitis take statins?"
"If you take iron, it makes the guaiac positive, right?"
Phone call.  "Can you do a thin prep Papanicolaou smear when the patient is on her menses?"
46-year-old woman.  What is the success rate in using phenol to prevent the nail from growing back after removing an ingrown toenail?
What is Stickler Syndrome?  Does it affect a chronic ruptured tympanic membrane?
3-year-old boy born at 24-weeks gestation.  Has cerebral palsy.  Mother is taking him for hyperbaric oxygen treatment.  I (investigator) said, "This may not be a question for you but it is for me, whether hyperbaric oxygen treatment is effective for this."  He (physician) said he didn't know either but he doesn't think so.
One-year-old ate racoon feces.  Study physician's partner e-mailed infectious disease consult:  "Do you have knowledge about the racoon ascarid Baylisascaris?  Should we treat a one-year old who probably ingested racoon feces?"
A phone call from mother of a 3-year-old with what she thinks is thrush.  Has had it before.  Physician looked up the dose of nystatin oral suspension in a reference.
15-month-old well child exam but he has eczema not responding to hydrocortisone cream and moisturizing cream.  If hydrocortisone cream doesn't work, what do I go to next?  When do you go to tacrolimus cream?
9-month-old in for well-child exam.  They know you're not supposed to give cow's milk because of gastrointestinal blood loss, but what about cheese and yogurt?  Is that a problem?
Oh, I know.  (She was trying to remember the questions she's had recently). The workup for polycystic ovarian syndrome.  And when to suspect it.
23-year-old woman with Graves disease.  She developed an absolute neutrophil count of 30 on Tapazole (total white count 3000, 1% neutrophils).  Is there any cross reactivity between Tapazole and propylthiouracil?  Is it safe to start propylthiouracil?
A family physician called the study physician to ask about a 4-day-old with jaundice and a bilirubin of 20.  "I was going to go over the guidelines.  I think they say to transfuse if over 20 but I'm more conservative than that."
For premature babies who get Synagis, we had one who tested positive for respiratory syncytial virus and the question was "Should we continue the Synagis for the rest of the respiratory syncytial virus season?"
13-year-old girl here for sports physical.  The question is, "What is the differential diagnosis of an intermittent croupy cough?"
Dose of Bactrim for a 52-pound child.
Last week I had a 37-year-old diabetic female and I wanted to convert her from regular insulin to Humalog and the question was, "What is the conversion factor, so I know how much Humalog to give?"
That would be a question.  75-year-old man with Paget's disease in his leg.  "What effect does Paget's disease have on other bones?"  Does it cause problems with metabolism because he has a dorsal kyphosis and question of compression fractures in the mid-thoracic spine but no obvious Pagets there.  I wonder if the rapid turnover of bone could do this.
36-year-old woman.  "I've asked this question . . . whether it's mandatory . . . blood pressure and birth control pills . . . I've had a couple of patients on it . . . ."  I (investigator) said, "So the question is, "If you have hypertension, should you stop the birth control pill?"  He said, "Right, right."
84-year-old female.  Would you treat a pure culture of 40,000 Escherichia coli with a negative urinalysis?
9-year-old boy with history of recurrent abdominal pain.  So I guess it's more of a diagnostic question.  Is the duodenitis causing the pain or the migraine?  If it is migraine, what other drug treatment, abortive or prophylactic, could we use?
"Ideal treatment for peripheral edema from nonsteroidals other than stopping them?"
I looked up the diagnosis and therapy of hyperthyroidism in this reference.  The question was how to differentiate the different causes of hyperthyroidism.
"Does pregnancy induce or aggravate radicular pain from low back pain?"
Hypertension.  Young woman, 28-years-old.  "What all lab tests do I need to order?"
I saw a 40-year-old man with prostatitis.  I had to look to see the duration of treatment.
38-year-old female, health care worker, didn't get the flu shot.  Daughter has influenza A.  How long are you contagious when you have Influenza A?
20-year-old volleyball player with leg cramps.  Coach said to try quinine.  I've used quinine for night cramps with fair results, but I've never used it in the setting of young athletes.
42-year-old woman.  Her tympanic membrane retracts with nasal inspiration.  "What would cause that?"
This is a 10-year-old girl who was treated 9 days ago for streptococcal sore throat with azithromycin.  The swab (rapid test) was positive for streptococcus.  Now her dysphagia is better but still has a sore throat and the swab is again positive for streptococcus.  So the question is, what to do if you have persistent streptococcal pharyngitis?  And what to do if she is a carrier?  And if her tonsils need to be taken out?
What is the treatment, if any, for a middle-aged man with inflammatory myopathy (creatinine kinases up to 3000, chronically) without symptoms for many years?
Why do parents always say they come up short by a day or two on the antibiotic prescription?
49-year-old man with known diabetes had triglycerides above 7000.  He never had pancreatitis.  I hit the books to see how to treat that.
6-year-old girl with encopresis.  A question came to mind.  "How long do we usually treat functional encopresis?"
32-year-old man with shortness of breath on exertion, supposedly has Type 2 diabetes, has family history of cardiomyopathy.  The question is how to address this issue.  Is he having hypertensive cardiomyopathy?  Is he having familial cardiomyopathy?  And which antihypertensive would be best?  Should I give a beta blocker because of the possible hypertensive cardiomyopathy?  Should I give an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor because of the diabetes?  Or what?
Elderly man with rheumatoid arthritis.  What labs do you need to follow in a patient on methotrexate other than liver function tests and a complete blood count?
What is the best shoe for walkers who have a lot of calluses?
13-year-old girl with menorrhagia.  She has a relative with von Willebrands and the mother asked me if this could be the cause of her menorrhagia.  I said it could but the question was, "How exactly do I figure it out?"
50-year-old male with nasal polyps and congestion.  Allegra and Nasacort not working.  Doesn't like steroids.  Doesn't want surgery.  Are there any other options?
30-year-old man with a rash on his abdomen and legs, quite extensive, never seen this kind of rash before.  The question is, what is this rash?
What strength does amitriptyline come in?  Specifically, does it come in a 50 milligram tablet?
In medical school we always used to do tuberculin skin tests with controls.  "Why aren't we doing controls anymore?"
Systolic hypertension in the elderly.  Stop at two medications?  Stop at three medications?  Always an issue.
"Got any magical cures for nosebleeds?  Maybe a legitimate question is when to send a nosebleed to an otolaryngologist."
"What antihypertensives are OK in someone who wants to get pregnant?"
8-year-old boy with failure to thrive.  The question would be, what endocrine tests to get.  Do you get a growth hormone?  Do you do cortisol levels?  Thyroid function tests?
Two months ago I had a 40 year-old woman who was just the picture of health, but she had an amazingly high very-low-density-lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol.  I went to a reference, but they didn't even address at what level to treat or what the preferred treatment was.  And I wasn't even sure why this lady would have it.  I wonder if she had abnormal metabolism.
21-year-old pregnant woman had a one-hour glucose of about 190.  Her glucose tolerance test was about 90 (fasting), about 210 (one hour), about 160 (two hours), about 130 (three hours).  Normals are less than 105, 190, 165, 145.  "Do I need to be checking a random blood sugar every time?"
Metacarpal fracture in a 25-year-old man.  I didn't know exactly what cast to put on and whether I needed a special cast to include the fingers.
Six-month old boy with respiratory syncytial virus and herpes simplex virus-type 1 around his mouth.  "When is it too late to treat an outbreak of chickenpox or oral herpes with acyclovir?
33-year-old female.  The patient said, "I have been on inhaled steroids for 8 months and I am feeling aches in my arms.  Can this medicine cause muscle aches and disease like the oral?  I read about it over the Internet."
50-year-old woman with vertigo and then developed severe fat intolerance.  An ultrasound showed a large solitary gallstone.  "Do we yank every gallstone?"  "Is this enough symptoms?"  "It was only a single gallstone."  I was also worried about a pancreatic disorder.  Should I do computerized tomography on her?
"I have another one for you.  It's actually quite interesting.  It's a hospital case.  What is the followup if any for Type B aortic dissection (below the subclavians)?
18-year-old male with a thyroid stimulating hormone of about 300, triglycerides 2000, low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol 450, high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol 20.  My question was, "With that high a thyroid stimulating hormone, do we start with a higher than normal dose of Synthroid (0.1 milligrams)?  And is any other evaluation indicated?"
"Exposure to Stachybotrys? Diagnosis, treatment, prognosis?"  20-year-old man.
In a patient with infectious mononucleosis, if the spleen is going to get enlarged, how long does it take to do that?  That is, how long should they stay out of sports?  And then the other question is, how long does it take to go back to normal.  Also, how big is a 10-year-old's spleen supposed to be on ultrasound?  Do you have to wait until it goes back to normal size to go back to sports or just wait 4 to 6 weeks and then go back regardless?  Also, is feeling the spleen good enough or do you need to do an ultrasound to see if someone should stay out of sports?
8-year-old girl with elevated lead level (approximately 40).  I (investigator) said, "So the question is treatment"?  He said, "No, just etiology.  I mean, is it supposed to be from iron deficiency or . . . ?
13-year-old boy complaining of gynecomastia.  Obese, type 2 diabetic.  I don't know what to do about the gynecomastia.  I don't know whether hormonal treatments would be better or surgery.
Does Strattera really work?
An inpatient who needs blood.  "If a family wants to donate blood, what is the turn around time?
This lady had morbid obesity, had bariatric surgery, no nausea or vomiting, not on a diuretic and her potassium is 3.1.  "Does bariatric surgery have anything to do with that?"
55-year-old woman.  What is the treatment for DeQuervain's tenosynovitis and should a splint be used?
Can I get a free supply of Viagra for this patient?  Can I get the 100-milligram size?
What is the differential diagnosis of sinus tachycardia in a 10-year-old?
Last week I saw a 2-week-old boy, whose sister has vesicoureteral reflux.  Mother asked, "Does he need to be checked for reflux?"
In this idiopathic-thrombocytopenia-purpura patient, when should we check the platelet count again (it's now about 40,000)?  I don't know when the tertiary center wants to check it again.
What is the dose of clindamycin for a 6-year-old with recurrent positive streptococcal sore throats?
63-year-old man with the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone.  When you're on a diuretic, the diuretic messes up the serum osmolality and urine osmolality, so how do you work up hyponatremia when the patient is on a diuretic?
12 year-old girl with chronic form of idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.  She gets routine draws every month and today her platelets were down to about 9000.  I know at around 8 to 10 you're supposed to treat but the question is, exactly at what level are you supposed to treat and what is the treatment?
I get these day care physicals, four to five kids in the house, I asked her if she needs a tuberculin skin test, she said no and it's not on the form.  I don't have a good source of information on state rules about who needs tuberculin skin testing.
And then there is the 48-hour rule out.  Some do 72 hours.  What makes one baby a 48-hour rule out and another 72 hours?
Two-year old girl with Kawasaki's diagnosed about 7 days into her illness.  Put on high-dose aspirin.  "I'm not familiar with aspirin toxicity.  The kid is a little tachycardic."  The question was whether aspirin toxicity could cause tachycardia.
This is a 49-year-old patient with a viral illness.  I recommended supportive measures but now she's back and says she's no better and wants antibiotics.  I still think it's a virus.  How long do you fight it before you just give antibiotics?
"For a Monospot, I'm not sure what the window is."
60-year-old man with carcinoma of the prostate.  He and his wife both complain that he has severe loss of memory.  "It's very confusing.  I'm really not sure what's going on.  I don't know where to look for . . . .  I need to think about him for a while before I can even formulate a question.  I don't know what's going on here is my question."
38-year-old woman.  Why is the glycosylated hemoglobin good (6.5) even though the blood sugars are mostly high (150 fasting and 200's by the end of the day)?
This patient is almost 34 years old and her mother was diagnosed with breast cancer in her early 50's.  Her mother's sister also has breast cancer and her maternal grandmother died of breast cancer in her 50's.  The question is, does she need to do anything earlier?  Genetic testing or what?
Does every person with bad esophagitis need endoscopy, looking for Barrett's?
15-month-old male had been cruising and just started walking.  He has an unusual gait (the physician demonstrated it for me, the investigator).  He walks normally with one foot but there is no swing-through phase of gait with the other, the other just stops when it is across from his planted leg (like a half-step).  Is that from walking around furniture for so long?  I wasn't sure.
Does this town have fluoride in the water?
38-year-old female with intertrigo.  The question is, what is the current treatment for intertrigo?
This family was heating their house with an open stove because they didn't think the furnace was keeping the house warm enough.  The 6-year-old boy came in with muscle aches, arthralgias, headaches, and cold symptoms.  One question was whether the stove could cause carbon monoxide poisoning.
Five-year-old boy with severe mental retardation.  Parents had lots of questions about "sensory diet."  "The general question is does sensory integration therapy work and how does it work?"
40-year-old woman with diarrhea.  Is there a certain duration of time you should let diarrhea go before doing stool studies like culture and ova and parasites?
40-year-old female with diabetes and tinea pedis.  Not resolved with Lamisil over the counter.  What other broad spectrum cream should she use?
Child with hyperactivity.  A famous thing they put in books:  Make sure you exclude other causes of hyperactivity.  But no one tells you how to do that.  Well, what exactly do you do?  It's quite maddening.
41-year-old woman.  In women in their early 40's, still menstruating, having regular cycles, but having hot flashes, normal follicle stimulating hormone, do you really do hormone treatments with them?  What do you do with these people?  Hormone replacement?  Should we do it?
Mother of this child wanted to get a flu shot.  She is breast feeding and wanted to know if it was safe.
Can we use the QBC (automated complete blood count with automated differential) to differentiate viral from bacterial infection?
I have a 2-month-old with a varicocele and the question is, how long can I watch it?
I wonder if there's any increase in the incidence of elevated liver function tests from the combination of statins and niacin as opposed to niacin alone?
10-year-old girl with chronic urticaria.  She had a positive antinuclear antibody test.  The parents asked me what are the chances of getting lupus later.
Five-year-old boy with "reactive airway disease."  The question was, "What is the difference between asthma and reactive airway disease?"
Yesterday I admitted a 3-year-old boy with a fever of 105 degrees.  His white count was 59,000.  I had to look at the algorithm on fever in kids with unknown source.  I had to remind myself about the recommended management.
Man with orogenital ulcers. Cultures from oral lesions and genital lesions were both negative.  Referred to tertiary center who said he responded well to acyclovir and they thought he had herpes.  "How sensitive is that test?" (meaning the herpes culture)
85-year-old female.  This patient asked, if I have fecal occult blood testing every year for 20 years, do I need a flexible sigmoidoscopy?  Wouldn't the occult blood testing be just as good?
49-year-old woman asked the physician to fill out a disability form.  "My question is what are the diagnostic criteria for fibromyalgia because that's what the form is asking for (which criteria does she have)."
I just referred an 18-month-old boy with persistent cervical lymph node enlargement to a tertiary center.  The question was, "Do these nodes need to be biopsied?"
I've got a woman with stage I breast cancer, 2 years status post mastectomy.  "Am I considered a survivor?"  That's what she asked me.
60-year-old woman just had a pulmonary embolus and deep vein thrombosis a few months back.  She has Factor V Leiden, homozygous and she wanted me to give her more information for her children.  I (investigator) said, "So the question is . . . "  She said, "The question is prophylactic anticoagulation for them and information for their kids (grandchildren of the patient)."
Does psychosocial stress play a role in triggering enuresis?
Yesterday our chief resident got a call from the local newspaper wanting to know our position on circumcision because he wanted to start an anticircumcision group.
Eleven-month-old twins with otitis media.  A tympanocentesis came back Hemophilus influenzae sensitive to ampicillin/sulbactam but resistant to amoxicillin/clavulanate.  So which oral antibiotic should we put them on?
50-year-old woman.  What are the indications for getting bone density scans?
What is the dose of Amaryl?
9-month-old whose sibling died of meningococcemia.  The question is whether this child should get conjugated meningococcal vaccine and if so how do I get it for her.
Patient with ingrown toenail.  What is Cutivate?  (The chart said he was on this.)
Yesterday I saw a 15-year-old girl with shingles.  I sent her to the dermatologist because it was an atypical presentation, since she was only 15, so I was wondering whether it could be an immune deficiency.
What is the normal respiratory rate for a two-month-old who was born at 34-weeks gestation and just normal vital signs for infants in general?
A patient asked me a couple of days ago, "Should I take Vitamin B6 or Vitamin B12 for my neuropathy?"
I had a baby with a club foot and the question was, "What should I do?"  The question was whether this can wait or needs to be referred soon.
Have you heard of the new rules for ordering lipids?  I (investigator) said, "so the question is . . . what should I do with this?"  She said, "Yeah.  How do I follow therapy?  Should I just order the whole panel and tell the patients they have to pay?"
38-year-old female, chronic cocaine abuser.  "A woman admitted with possible cocaine ingestion.  In body stuffers, is it safe to use GoLYTELY?
When in the course of the illness is Parvovirus (Fifth disease) infectious to pregnant women?
16-year-old girl with primary pulmonary hypertension.  "If she gets wheezing, can I give albuterol?  What does albuterol do to pulmonary artery pressure?"
The nurse came in and wanted to refill a prescription.  She said she had never heard of etodolac and wanted to know the other name for it.
27-year-old woman with rash on her face.  The rash almost had a butterfly pattern and my question was whether warfarin can cause a lupus-like reaction.
61-year-old woman.  What is the best approach for elbow epicondylitis in terms of treatment -- steroid shot first or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories first?
Could skin lesions consistent with warfarin-induced skin necrosis be that if the patient has been on warfarin for "some time"?
For osteoporosis, when do you use Evista versus when do you go to Fosamax?  And when to do the intravenous bisphosphonate, Zometa?
Is there a new pill for stopping smoking besides Zyban?
43-year-old woman.  What do you do with premenopausal dysfunctional uterine bleeding?
"PEG-interferon (pegylated interferon, polyethylene glycol) in Hepatitis C.  There's some information out there about it but . . . ."
This is a 45-year-old woman who noticed a lump under her cheek bone and there are some overlying skin changes.  It's near the parotid.  The question is, what would cause this lump on the cheek.
14-year-old boy.  Ketaconazole for tinea capitis.  I (investigator) asked if the question was the dose.  He said, "Dose and duration of therapy."
8-year-old male with painful red bumps on his heel.  Red painful subcutaneous, 3 to 4 millimeters in diameter.  Couldn't find anything helpful in three references in my office.
15-month-old boy with anemia and failure to thrive.  I decided this was a viral thing.  But, "how do I follow this up?"
Newborn male.  Why do they need to urinate after circumcision?  In other words, why do hospitals have a rule that the baby has to urinate after circumcision before they can be discharged?  What would you do if the baby didn't void and how long would you wait?
I can't remember the formula for converting hemoglobin A1C to average blood sugar.
There is a company doing very well here that sells screening ultrasound for carotid artery stenosis, abdominal aortic aneurysm, and ankle-brachial reflexes, all three for one hundred dollars, or you can get just one for thirty-five dollars.  I've sent a few people.  My partners say, "What are you doing that for?"  They have no symptoms.  But sometimes they find things even without symptoms.  So I don't know . . . .
Twenty-six-month-old boy.  Serum sickness.  This kid came in first with hives on amoxicillin, no mucus membrane involvement.  Then his ankles were swollen and tender and he wouldn't walk and he had a fever.  "The question was, what caused this?  Was it a serum sickness?  Was it . . . ?  It wasn't Stevens Johnson Syndrome."
I asked the pathologist, "Is there any syndrome where you get hypersensitive to a normal hematocrit when you have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and you need phlebotomies for that reason?"
Does this 9-month-old boy need any immunizations?
12-year-old boy.  I'm seeing a lot of patients with cough.  When is it appropriate to investigate for pertussis and how do you do it?
How long do you continue antidepressants or antianxiety medications after the patient is improved?
48-year-old noticed increasing prominence of his tibial tubercles.  No pain.  He noticed them becoming bigger one year ago after working on a roof.
16-month-old with intoeing.  I had to look up intoeing before I went into the room.  I (investigator) asked what the question was.  He said, "How to distinguish whether the intoeing is just physiologic?"
A young woman was very concerned about whether she could have herpes.  She asked, "How long does it take for herpes to show up after you have been exposed?"
45-year-old woman.  How should I follow up an elevated gamma glutamyltransferase and occasionally mildly elevate alanine aminotransferase in a Type 2 diabetic with hypercholesterolemia, well controlled on Lipitor?
59-year-old man with a generalized rash.  No allergies, no virus infection.  What is the best approach?  Oral steroids?  Skin biopsy?  Send to dermatology?
Drug representative was visiting.  "I have a patient who is still having pain on Celebrex.  What is the maximum dose?"
21-year-old woman, has been on cholesterol medications, on massive doses of things, well not massive, but she's on Lipitor and Lopid and then Tricor.  Triglycerides 415, cholesterol 157, high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol 26, low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol cannot calculate.  I asked my partner, "What would you do with this girl?"
I did a computerized tomography scan of the abdomen in a patient and it was because of some recurrent abdominal pain and one of the findings was that the proximal portion of the third part of the duodenum was somewhat dilated compared to the distal part, and then while they were, you know, saying that, I'm thinking what, you know, what does that mean?
Fourteen-year-old with keratosis pilaris.  I never know what to do with that.
2-year-old.  "I didn't know if the otolaryngology associations have any succinct guidelines for myringotomy tubes for kids."
What is nabumetone?
Email question from study physician:  "A question we've had difficulty finding the right answer for: What is the normal alkaline phosphatase value for a 10-year-old girl?"
Is there a cure for interstitial cystitis?  I have a friend who has tried everything.
What is Sansert?
Daughter of 86-year-old woman called for Flexeril prescription for her mother's "contractures" and wanted it in liquid form.  Doctor X said, "Flexeril doesn't come as a liquid does it?"
40-year-old man drinks 12-15 beers per week.  Has megaloblastic cells but is not anemic.  Does he need any other laboratory work?
I had a 41-year-old obstetric patient last week.  "How many weeks along should you do an amniocentesis?"
49-year-old female with burning metallic taste in mouth for two weeks.  What is the etiology of this metallic taste?
I have to look up thyroid nodules.  So the question is how to work up thyroid nodules.
62-year-old woman, 2 years on Fosamax and has a declining bone mass (T-score now about -3.7).  I (investigator) said, "So, the question is why?"  She (study physician) said, "Why and what to do about it?"
77-year-old female.  On Norvasc, but insurance will only pay for verapamil, nifedipine, or Plendil.  What is the dose of Plendil?
2-year-old with otitis media.  What is the dose of Augmentin?  Then he remembered she was allergic to penicillin and the question became, "What is the dose of Biaxin?"
87-year-old female with vertigo for two to three weeks.  Possibly viral.  How long should I expect the symptoms to last before referring or checking a magnetic resonance imaging?
I had a child with encopresis.  The treatment of encopresis was the question.
What do you do for a painful bump on the heel where the Achilles tendon inserts ("pump bump")?
Seventeen-year-old girl going to Haiti.  The question is whether she should get Hepatitis A immunoglobulin versus Hepatitis A vaccine.  How long is Hepatitis A good for?
86-year-old with a femur fracture.  Does deep-vein-thrombosis prophylaxis depend on the operative management, for example, pin versus prosthesis versus no surgery?
72-year-old female.  How do you figure out restrictive lung disease in a patient with a normal chest x-ray?  What's the workup?
What is the equivalent dose of Synthroid for someone on Armour Thyroid 180 milligrams per day?
Woman in her 30's from China had a gallbladder polyp discovered there, 7 millimeters.  She came asking for a followup ultrasound.  I told her I wasn't sure that was necessary, but later I looked it up on a medical Web site to see if she needed a cholecystectomy or followup.
"Von Willebrand's is autosomal dominant but what is the penetrance?"
40-year-old man with diabetes.  He said, "I'm feeling dizzy and have a headache.  Do you think it could be my medicine?"  But it wasn't his medication.  My (physician's) question was, "What is causing the dizziness?"
Can a mother force her 17-year-old daughter to have a Depo-Provera shot for contraception?  I should know the answer but I don't.
This is more of a psychosocial or medical-legal question.  Nine-month-old boy in foster care with recurrent wheezing.  Visits grandparents every 2 weeks for 1-2 hours.  In two days they are going to court and want my recommendation.  The wheezing is aggravated after a visit to the smoking grandparents.  Most books don't say whether it's really passive smoking or if you just don't smoke when the child is there, is that OK?
Nurse practitioner asked the study physician about a 9-month old girl:  "Is this unilateral laterothoracic exanthem?"
What are criteria for admission for respiratory syncytial virus in a 2-week old?  How do they differ from criteria for older infants (ie, one to two months)?
"When we do a sigmoidoscopy, when can we say it was a good one?"  Certainly 60 centimeters is good and probably 45 or 50 but what about 30 or 35?
Do Coumadin and Augmentin interact?
35-year-old man, blood in the urine, very smelly urine, frequency and dysuria.  I thought probably prostatitis.  Got a urinalysis yesterday and started Levoquin because it was late in the day.  But today his urinalysis came back negative and he has a dry cough, but his chest x-ray is also negative.  "What am I gonna do?  Treat that?"
50-year-old female with recurrent hot tub folliculitis.  "Is there anything you can do to prevent that?"
6-month-old term delivery, developing normally except question of hypertonicity of lower extremities with some scissoring, which is now more definite.  "Should I do any workup and if so should it be a magnetic resonance imaging or a computerized tomography or what?"
Regarding a two-month-old I referred to a tertiary center with a positive blood culture, the spinal fluid had 4 cells in tube number 2 and 2 cells in tube number 3.  "I think that's within acceptable limits, let's see."
15-month-old born prematurely with Potter's syndrome.  Now has poorly functioning kidneys.  "I don't know if the failure to thrive is secondary to the foster mother or the renal problems."
"Should a patient who took too much amitriptyline get bicarbonate and if so what are the criteria for giving it?  How bad does the overdose have to be before giving bicarbonate?"
The physician showed me the lipid panel on a 60-year-old woman.  Total cholesterol about 250, triglycerides about 600, high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol 36, low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol 89.  "Which one to start with:  Lipitor or gemfibrozil?  But my main question is if there is any evidence that omega-3 fatty acids (fish oil) are helpful."
Nine-month-old girl with lipomeningomyelocele, not classic meningomyelocele.  The question that arose was how soon will she retether her cord.
It's unlikely to get streptococcal sore throat in very young children.  At what age would you do a step test?  Would it make a difference if a family member has documented streptococcal sore throat?  How young would you go if you do have a family member (sibling) with streptococcal sore throat?  For example, would you do it in a one-year old?
44-year-old lady with a rash in the perineum.  The question was whether it was bad yeast or herpes.
What do you do for the PSA (prostate-specific antigen)?
31-year-old woman is breast feeding, complains of being tired and has a stomatitis with aphthous ulcers in her mouth.  The question is whether tetracycline crosses into the breast milk.
I have a lot of questions about drug safety in pregnancy.
15-year-old girl with post-influenza pneumonia.  What should you treat with?
This morning I saw a 65-year-old woman with diabetes, hypertension, elevated lipids, and coronary disease.  She has chronic low back pain, two surgeries, can hardly move.  I referred her to a neurosurgeon who talked about implanting some sort of nerve stimulator.  Not a transcutaneous nerve stimulator, but something implanted.  I (investigator) asked him what the question is.  He said, "What is that thing?  What are its indications?"
I had a guy, 37-years-old who came in with bloody diarrhea, which changed to rectal bleeding so we admitted him.  He was scoped and turned out to have Escherichia coli O157:H7.  We started Cipro before the culture came back and I asked the gastroenterologist about whether we should stop the Cipro because of the increased risk of hemolytic uremic syndrome if you treat.
What is the best approach in a 60-year-old woman with complaints of loss of libido?
Phone call.  Patient wants a refill of Niaspan.  Do I need to check a liver profile?
13-year-old girl here for sports physical.  Has a history of concussion (saw this when looking at chart before entering the room).  "I often have to review the concussion rules.  I have them in my file."
"Hypothyroid patient seen yesterday.  I thought antithyroglobulin was for Graves and thyroid peroxidase was for Hashimoto's."  I (investigator) prompted, "So the question was whether you were remembering this right?" And she said yes.
6-year-old boy with enuresis.  Should you treat and if so what should you do?
4-year-old girl with an ear infection last week, treated with Augmentin.  Doctor X saw her yesterday and noted marked tenderness of the mastoid.  He (study physician) started looking in the index of a reference and I (investigator) asked him what the question was.  He said, "What imaging study would be indicated?"
6-month-old boy involved in a motor vehicle accident where the air bag went off approximately three weeks ago.  Could the cough be caused by the air bag deployment?
14-year-old with asthma.  Mom asked about Advair, saw it on TV.  "I've never prescribed it before.  I've not used it.  This is more for prevention isn't it?"
50-year-old white female.  How concerning a risk factor is an elevated C-reactive protein?
I had another lady with a multinodular goiter, diagnosed on ultrasound.  They recommended a repeat ultrasound in 6 months, which we did recently and now they are reporting a solid nodule in the lower left lobe, but they said it was smaller than it was previously, but they did not report it on the previous ultrasound, so, "now what do I do with her?"
40-year-old woman with Type 1 diabetes and depression.  I (investigator) saw her (physician) looking in a reference.  "I'm just thinking of this person with horrible depression -- what I could add in."
52-year-old man.  "In patients with chronic pancreatitis and pain, do enzyme supplements help with the pain or just the steatorrhea?"
"Pertussis.  I had to look up whether or not we have to treat the people who are exposed and whether to use erythromycin.
Phone call to nurse.  The nurse asked the physician what the endocarditis prophylaxis was for a 48-year-old woman with a history of endocarditis getting dental work.
I'm going to ask you (investigator).  Is that legal?  Which antibiotic would you use for an infected toe with poor circulation?
This morning we looked up Lisch nodules.  I (investigator) asked him what the question was.  He said he wanted to check to see what other stigmata of neurofibromatosis we should check for.
Phone call from mother of one-year-old girl with fever of 102.  "Can we mix Tylenol and ibuprofen in kids?" (Meaning, can you alternate acetaminophen and ibuprofen for fever?)
College student.  Suicide attempt by taking 50 Excedrin Migraine and 50 Ibuprofen.  Excedrin migraine.  Does it have Tylenol in it?
Two-year-old with constipation and overflow diarrhea, now having explosive stools on Miralax.  "How to know if he's cleaned out and we're giving too much Miralax versus still having overflow diarrhea?"
45-year-old woman.  With chronic lung disease, there have been studies indicating the need to give antibiotics if there is green or yellow phlegm.  But I have not seen . . . .  My question is what about the nonsmoker and non-chronic-lung-disease patient.
I had a question with this man but to be honest I'm not going to look it up.  He had a deep-vein thrombosis two weeks ago.  I've been holding him off work.  I'm going to let him go back now.
24-year-old woman with chronic hepatitis B and a seizure disorder and elevated alanine aminotransferase.  Does a patient with chronic hepatitis B need a liver biopsy?  Would you do anything anyway?  There is no treatment like there is with hepatitis C, is there?
A patient of somebody else.  Simple question.  Came in with a huge international normalized ratio (prothrombin time).  They decreased his Coumadin one week prior.  He was getting too much thyroid.  Free thyroxine was high.  I don't know if that can affect the Coumadin.
Man in his late 40's with bad Crohn's disease.  Came in with pyoderma gangrenosum.  We didn't know how to treat him.
In the context of Hispanic or Vietnamese non-English speakers, can you simply translate the Folstein Mini Mental State Exam or are there cultural differences that would also make a difference?
I think below age 60 you're not supposed to treat atrial fibrillation with Coumadin but I'm not sure that's right.
48-year-old woman with cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, negative chest x-ray, normal pulse oximetry, now today has worse peak flows on prednisone, was 270, now 200.  "What is causing this?"
I (investigator) caught the study physician looking at a reference.  I asked what the question was and he said he was looking up the different concentrations of liquid ibuprofen.
25-year-old male with severe headaches and constipation.  Is Sansert causing the constipation?
What is the treatment for Helicobacter pylori in a 70-year-old patient with dyspepsia?
I did have a question over the weekend, about a kid seen in the emergency room.  Eight-year-old boy on Ritalin LA for attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder, took 5 to 10 pills, so a moderate overdose, not a severe overdose.  "Does anybody really know when it is not effective to induce vomiting anymore?
"Is there a familial high thyroid-stimulating hormone syndrome where the thyroxine and triiodothyronine are normal?"
Eight-year-old boy with recurrent abdominal pain.  I called Doctor X (pediatric gastroenterologist) and said, "OK, what is this?  I don't know what to do."
15-month-old.  At what age should you give a child a pillow?
A boy with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome I will be seeing this afternoon.  I don't know which type.  I need to read about it before I see him.  I (investigator) tried to nail him down about what information he needed and never got a clear answer.  But on the next visit, I asked him again what the question was and he said, "What is it?" meaning, "What is Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome?"
Phone call from 39-year-old woman with depression, on Effexor 150 milligrams once a day.  Still depressed.  My question is how high can I go up on the Effexor.
39-year-old woman with complaints of vaginal discharge and clue cells on wet mount.  I treated her with metronidazole.  She has it back again.  Why did she get it again so soon?  What is the failure rate with metronidazole for bacterial vaginitis?  What are the predisposing factors for bacterial vaginosis?
14-year-old girl with a lump on her thigh.  I looked in an anatomy book.  I just wanted to be sure there was nothing else in there besides the rectus muscle and the quadriceps.
This patient has an ulcer on his foot from peripheral vascular disease, no diabetes.  We have a podiatrist in town who wants to do surgery on this ulcer.  The physician called the vascular surgeon who already knows the patient and said, "With her circulation, do you think that's reasonable?"
66-year-old woman with a Baker's cyst.  How many Baker's cysts are related to deep-vein thrombosis?  How many people with Baker's cysts get deep vein thromboses?
This morning I saw an 8-month-old girl with erythema multiforme.  My question was whether to use steroids.
Has anybody shown that well-child checks are helpful?
A mom is going to have an anencephalic baby.  The question came up about donation of organs.
10-month-old male.  "Does the flu shot have Thimerosal?"
I haven't really seen a patient with congenital hip dysplasia.  How soon do we need to refer them to orthopedics?  Is it a matter of days or weeks?
What antidepressant is best to avoid sexual dysfunction?
"Is there any relation between iron deficiency and thrombocytopenia or could iron deficiency cause the low platelets?  Or could the viral illness have caused the anemia and the low platelets?"
"The only thing I need to look up . . . 12-year-old girl with hepatitis C, for 6 months has been on interferon and ribavirin and in the last two months her enzymes have been essentially normal but on the last test, the enzymes jumped from about 40 to about 400.  Now we have pegylated interferon.  "Do I try pegylated interferon with ribavirin?"
55-year-old man with dyshidrotic eczema.  "What would be the best strength to use for triamcinolone cream?  I'm looking for one with moderate potency."
73-year-old man with benign prostatic hypertrophy.  I wanted to find a generic alpha 1 blocker.
50-year-old woman with cataracts and high cholesterol.  So the question is, can she continue to take Zocor since she has cataracts?  The question is, are cataracts going to happen with EVERYBODY who takes them?
"What is the best radiologic test to order to rule out brain tumor?  Computerized tomography or magnetic resonance imaging?  Do you always want to do the computerized tomography with contrast?
70-year-old man developed a hard lesion at the inferior aspect of his left testicle over the last few days.  What would cause that?
Elderly man.  I had to look up hematospermia.  How much of a workup you have to do?
15-month-old had idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura last spring with a platelet count of 2000.  Initially had some blast forms.  I (investigator) never got a clear idea of what the question was and asked the study physician if the question was "Could this infant have infantile leukemia?"  He said, "Yes and the prognosis."
This is a 2-month-old in for well-child check but when she was a newborn she had blood in her stools.  I called the pediatric GI person at the university.
11-year-old girl.  If someone is sucking on a throat lozenge, does that affect the throat culture or the rapid streptococcal test?
How well does biofeedback work for rectal incontinence?
Since epidural anesthesia can cause low-grade maternal fevers, do we need separate criteria for sepsis workup in infants whose mothers got an epidural?  Separate laboratory and rupture of membrane criteria?
What is the maximum dose of Zoloft?
One-year-old boy.  What immunizations does he need?
A young guy in his late 30's had tinnitus and headaches.  I did a computerized tomography scan and it showed a suprasellar mass pushing on the optic chiasm.  I had to look up where the auditory nerve was in relation to the mass.
Is gentian violet toxic when given for oral thrush?
Does meclizine come as a liquid?
57-year-old woman.  "I'm just looking up olanzapine.  I'm not sure whether I need to taper it.  Because I want to switch her over to Paxil."
Yesterday I saw a 4 year-old girl with trichotillomania.  Mom said, can you use Benadryl?
"If people on statins, who have subjective muscle aching, if they are at higher risk for rhabdomyolysis.  Is it the same type of process?  And have normal creatine kinase of course."
Is there any treatment for geographic tongue?
"What do you do about . . . ?  What about . . . ?  One of my pet peeves . . . .  Do I need to take magnesium for my osteoporosis?"
11-year-old girl with asthma.  I want to wean her off the Serevent (she's using too much) and start her on a steroid inhaler, but I want to use the steroid that's in Advair in case I have to use both a steroid and Serevent (that is, add back the Serevent).  So the question is, what is the steroid that's in Advair.
What is the best test for bone mineral density?
16-year-old girl with chronic abdominal pain.  She's lost 15 pounds in the last several months and they (parents) think she may have a problem with absorption.  The question is, "What's the best way to look for those things?"
"Has anybody ever demonstrated that routine prenatal care in low risk patients improves outcomes?"
35-year-old man.  My question is, "What is the incidence of sexual side effects with clomipramine?"
This is a kid with reactive airway disease.  That's a question.  At what age are pulmonary function tests reliable for the diagnosis of asthma?  How old do you have to be before pulmonary function tests can be done?
39-year-old woman on Paxil for depression and says she's 30% better.  She's complaining of fatigue.  I'm going to switch her to Zoloft, but I'm not sure what the differences in side effects are.
When do we stop doing mammograms?  What age?
Two-week-old girl with bilateral preauricular pits and briefly a white discharge from them.  So I looked at the books.  I (investigator) said, "What was the question."  He said, "What do I do with those? Do I just leave them alone?  Do I refer?  Do I need to do anything?"
15 year-old girl had a portacath placed three weeks ago.  Wound is draining, red, dehiscing, I can almost see the portacath.  What to do with this?
"One thing I did look up last week was the definitions for the New York Heart Association Heart Failure classification.  I needed it to complete some paperwork for one of my patients."
Are we supposed to check for Clostridium difficile if the patient is clinically better after treatment for Clostridium difficile, to be sure it's gone?
I was late this morning because I saw a child in the emergency room who had been there all night, while the emergency room staff took care of two trauma cases.  The question is, "How do you get the emergency room staff to call us sooner so we could have seen this kid?"
Thirteen-year-old boy with recurrent epistaxis since age 3, always on one side.  "I don't know what to make of that."
30-year-old man with alcoholic cardiomyopathy.  Is it OK to drink at all?
18-year-old female was vaccinated for chickenpox four years ago and again one month ago.  She got a pruritic vesicular rash.  How common is it to get chickenpox after the vaccine?
I've got to look this up.  Mother mentioned there is a new growth chart for breast fed infants.  I was not aware of that.
29-year-old man.  Can Paxil cause weight gain or alopecia?
Four-year-old with asthma, got respiratory syncytial virus.  Do you give albuterol and steroids for respiratory syncytial virus?
A family physician had a newborn with a two-vessel cord.  Her question was "What should I do with this?"
Phone call from patient on Prempro which she stopped when she heard the news.  But now she has severe hot flashes.  "What's different about Ortho Pretest compared with Prempro?"
What is the best treatment for a needlestick injury after a human immunodeficiency virus exposure?
Can she take Plavix is the question.  I know it affects platelets.  What lab work do you need before starting Plavix?  It doesn't really say.  Are there any interactions with the other medications she's on (she already takes 11 other medications).
14-year-old boy with swelling over lower lumbar area.  No pain, no injury.  Horizontal area of swelling between the hips.  Plain x-ray negative.  I wasn't sure if any further workup was needed.
We had this girl with a latex allergy and wanted to give her a flu shot, but she has a latex allergy.  The stopper in the flu vaccine vial has latex in it so the question was how to deal with that.
Can you use ibuprofen in less than 6-month-old children?
70-year-old woman with dyspepsia.  I've gotten into the habit of checking for Helicobacter pylori and treating if I find it.  Sometimes it works and sometimes not.  You can't find anything about dyspepsia in the textbooks.
One-year-old boy.  What is the difference between Hib (PRP-D) (Haemophilus influenza b conjugate vaccine (Diphtheria Protein Conjugate)) and Hib (PRP-OMP) (Haemophilus influenza b conjugate vaccine (Meningococcal Protein Conjugate)) and which one should I give?
Is it OK to breast feed when you're on propylthiouracil?
44-year-old man here for immigration physical.  Is it cheaper to give the measles-mumps-rubella vaccination or get the titers?
I do have to look something up later.  Dyshidrosis.  Four-year-old brother of the patient I'm seeing.  Mother asked about him.  I have to look up the management of this later.
We had a patient with Dandy Walker syndrome.  Mother said he had it.  We used various references to look up an answer.  I (investigator) said, "What is the question?"  He said, "What is it?" meaning what is Dandy Walker syndrome.
45-year-old woman.  The question is regarding the use of Ultracet (Ultram plus acetaminophen) in a methadone user.  Would it be bad to use in her?
I've got one for you.  Indications for oral versus topical therapy for impetigo.
"When are you too old to have varicose vein surgery?"
The study physician asked me (investigator), "Have you ever used those depression scales?  I'm not sure how I would use them.  Give them to everyone in the waiting room?"
Not my patient but mother is calling for head magnetic resonance imaging results.  The results included an abnormal right cerebral hemisphere with neuronal migration disorder and changes of lissencephaly."  After reading this, the physician said, "Neuronal migration disorder.  I'd have to look that up to see what that means.
I've got a guy with a goiter who is hypothyroid.  I had the surgeon look at him after getting an ultrasound and the surgeon increased the dose of Synthroid even though the thyroid stimulating hormone was normal.  He wanted to oversuppress her to make the goiter shrink and reduce the risk of cancer.  But I didn't think you were supposed to do that.
52-year-old woman with right-lower-quadrant pain and a large fibroid (8 centimeters by 7 centimeters by 6 centimeters).  When and when not to do a hysterectomy for a fibroid?
58-year-old white female has a family history of ovarian cancer and is requesting a hysterectomy.  She said, "I'm not using this stuff, why not get rid of it?"  The question is, "Is hysterectomy an option for her?"  We do prophylactic mastectomies, so why not prophylactic hysterectomies?
What drugs does Fosamax interact with?
Young woman with acute Fifth disease (son also has it).  She is not pregnant.  She has increased swelling of her hands and her arms go numb and she has trouble sleeping.  Wants to know what to do.
I had this other gentleman (41-year-old man) with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy.  I just wondered if there is any connection between the polyneuropathy and the monoclonal gammopathy of uncertain significance.
62-year-old man.  One question is the management of fasting hyperglycemia or impaired glucose tolerance, whatever you want to call it.  "Nobody really talks about how often to check blood sugars."  "And how aggressive to be with lipids in that setting."  "So just sort of general management of impaired glucose tolerance."
I saw a girl with a seizure disorder.  I had to look up Keppra and Topamax.  Have you ever heard of those?
18-year-old girl with low back pain for 18 months, ever since a motor vehicle accident.  "I never know what to do with low back pain.  Do you x-ray them?  Or just have her seen by an orthopedic doctor?  Or get a magnetic resonance imaging?"
79-year-old female with atypical chest pain, status post coronary artery stent.  "I don't think you could find such a thing, but you know what would be nice would be to have a comparison of the different types of stress tests.  Sensitivity, specificity, ideal patient for each and the cost.  Like a big table."
Statin-induced myopathy.  40-year-old man on Lipitor having muscle pain and aches but creatine phosphokinase was normal.  So my question was, "Do you go more by the clinical symptoms versus an elevated creatine phosphokinase to be able to say this should be myopathy?"
55-year-old woman has had breast cancer.  Her question to me was, "What can I do to make sure I don't get ovarian cancer?"  "So screening."  I think there might be a risk of ovarian cancer in a woman with breast cancer.  I'm not sure.  Is there a role for ultrasound or CA 125 (cancer antigen 125) in this situation?
28-year-old woman had a deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolus with her first pregnancy.  I diagnosed her with prothrombin mutation.  I had a terrible time finding out how to treat her.
One year and 10-month-old boy removed from his home because of parental neglect.  Caretaker says he often cries like he's in pain, possibly abdominal pain.  Not eating, just drinking liquids, not sleeping.  The big question with him:  "Is it something physical or all adjustment disorder?"
What is the proper role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of low back pain if there are no obvious neurologic deficits?
48-year-old man.  How often is it recommended to check lipids in people being treated for hyperlipidemia?
15-year-old boy with history of tracheoesophageal fistula, often hospitalized when younger with respiratory illnesses.  One time he had respiratory syncytial virus and was very sick and I called the tertiary center.  "Should I give him Ribavirin?"
26-year-old man wants to stop smoking.  One question I've always wanted to look up:  Is the combined use of Zyban with nicotine replacement better than either one alone?
How should I treat this fractured base of the fifth metatarsal?  Would a splint be good enough?
24-year-old woman with chronic hepatitis B and a seizure disorder and elevated alanine aminotransferase.  Can Depakote cause an elevated alanine aminotransferase?
31-year-old woman in for annual exam.  Is St. John's Wort safe during pregnancy?
At what age would you worry if there are no teeth.  This was a 15-month-old.
18-year-old woman had a positive Influenza A test.  Her step father comes in 4 days later sicker than a dog.  "Which one works to treat Influenza A?"  "Would amantadine work because he didn't want to pay for Tamiflu."
I wanted to discontinue . . . Sometimes we place women on Depo-Provera shots who have heavy vaginal bleeding and anemia.  This one is 49 years old and my question was "When do you stop the Depo-Provera?"
There are these questions that parents bring up that you just say it's OK.  She asked me if there are any problems with just getting over infectious mononucleosis and giving the influenza vaccine.
I am looking at growth.  This is a kid with spastic quadriplegia and growth retardation.  "I just wanted to make sure I'm getting the right lab work, just to make sure what lab work I should get."
What do you do with a 39-year-old woman with dizziness, tingling in her chest and right arm, and shortness of breath?
For spotting in the first trimester, how often does ultrasound give a definitive answer as to the cause?
"What is an alternate drug for otitis media for an adult who is allergic to penicillin?"
I (investigator) caught the study physician's partner looking something up.  "Oh it's just her anemia.  What other things I need to add besides iron studies, reticulocyte count and having somebody look at the smear."
35-year-old woman swallowed her tongue piercing.  I called gastroenterology to ask if I should send her home of if they wanted to try to remove it.
46-year-old woman complaining of excess sweating and fatigue for 5 days.  The question is "Why is she sweating?"
The study physician called a hematologist and while she was on hold I (investigator) asked what the question was.  She said, a patient in the hospital with low platelets and "HIT" (heparin-induced thrombocytopenia) and a deep vein thrombosis.  "I'm calling to see if we should put him on that special low-molecular-weight heparin and if there is anything else we should do."
30-year-old female exposed to influenza.  Tamiflu versus Amantadine.  Is there any difference in efficacy for prevention?
She's a nurse and wanted to know the maximum dose of Celexa and the exact pregnancy category.
A couple of questions about her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  "If there are any benefits between inhalers and nebulizers in terms of objective lung findings?
2-week-old female.  Parents asked when is it appropriate to get ears pierced.
8-year-old girl with angioneurotic edema.  Mother said, "the only thing that works for her is Zithromax.  "I said, don't you mean Zyrtec.  She said, no Zithromax.  I (investigator) asked how he would phrase the question.  He said, "Has Zithromax ever been shown to be effective for angioneurotic edema and if so what's the mechanism or is this just a fluky thing?"
13-year-old boy with jaundice.  I saw him one time and his eyes were yellow.  We did a big workup and the bilirubin was 3 but everything else was normal.  I asked a pediatric gastroenterologist what would give this picture and is there a test for Gilbert's disease.
"One other question I had today -- differential diagnosis of false positive RPR (rapid plasma reagin)."
I have had two newborns recently with neonatal seizures at about 3 days of age.  The question is, "Is acyclovir too aggressive?"
His physician's assistant called about a patient with hidradenitis suppurativa asking how to treat her.
"I had this patient . . . has to do with dealing with families.  85-year-old woman was declining, dying.  At the very end, her daughter would not let up.  She wanted to be aggressive and it was completely inappropriate.  I didn't look this up, but dealing with family members with difficult end-of-life issues.  It was so beyond . . . .
My patient was convinced she had hypothyroidism.  Her labs were normal in August and I even checked antithyroid antibodies and they were negative.  She asked another physician to check her thyroid antibodies again and her thyroid peroxidase antibody was two times the upper limit of normal, so I called an endocrinologist and said, "Now what do I do with this?"
What typhoid vaccine should we give children over age 2 years, going to India?
How much does a tetanus shot cost?
35-year-old woman came in with ankle injury.  X-ray showed no fracture but there was a large lesion in the distal tibia.  "I'm going to look up bone tumors because I don't know anything about bone tumors."
Have you ever dealt with an autistic child who urinates only once a day?  6-year-old.
I don't know if you're doing this, but any baby born breech gets a hip ultrasound here.  I should look this up.  "Is this really necessary?"
I had a newborn referred to me yesterday with seizures.  The question was whether to start anticonvulsants.
Here's a question:  In someone with Addison's disease, is there any blood test you can do to check to see if they're on enough steroids, like an ACTH level or something?
21-year-old man with diabetes, I saw last Saturday when I was on "city call" (taking patients in the emergency room who had no personal physician).  He had new-onset diabetes but the question was, "Was it Type 1 or Type 2?"
58-year-old woman, bilateral reduction mammoplasty, pathology was positive for ductal hyperplasia.  Does that change breast cancer screening recommendations?
41-year-old woman with a family history of breast cancer.  What is the appropriate screening for her?
A middle-aged man with impotence on Prozac and Atenolol had a low free testosterone and it was low two years ago.  Follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone were normal.  Would I need to do a magnetic resonance imaging of the sella?
This is a 33-year-old woman with daily tension headaches for several months.  The question is what treatment to try next.
What are these brown dots on this 16-day-old's scalp?  The physician's partner asked him to look at the baby.
A patient had von Hippel-Lindau disease.  "What is it?  Is it cancer or a collection of blood vessels?"
Why does risperdal work for autistic regression and how do you know which cases it will work for?
34-year-old female.  Mother had breast cancer at age 49.  "When do you start screening?"
78-year-old man.  Screening prostate-specific antigen about 9.  Prostate biopsy shows Gleason 8 cancer in 1 lobe.  What treatment is best?
This is probably in the Framingham study or something but I'm never sure how many blood pressures you need to make a diagnosis of hypertension.
82-year-old female.  "What's the evidence for using meclizine for dizziness?"
64-year-old man with polymyalgia rheumatica, erythrocyte sedimentation rate about 80, jaw claudication and thighs weak.  "Should I start steroids even if no headache or blurred vision?"
The physician called the local mental health clinic and said, "I have just kind of a generic question.  I have an 18-year-old with attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder who was on Adderall but her obstetrician recommended stopping it.  Is there anything that your psychiatrists have that we could use during pregnancy?"
57-year-old man with a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.  At what duration of steroid treatment do you need to taper off instead of just stopping without tapering?
41-year-old female who said, "I am frustrated with the fact that I can't predict when my myasthenia gravis attack (or crisis) is coming.  Is there a way to predict it?  Like checking the peak flow for asthmatics?"
If the triglycerides are high, like 500, do you treat the low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol first with a statin even though you don't know what it is (cannot calculate if triglycerides over 400) or do you treat the triglycerides with Lopid?
Is there such a thing as bacterial bronchitis?  Why can't there be?  You can have bacterial infections everywhere else.
A patient called the study physician.  He and his kids are going to Asia and he wanted to know what to do for immunizations.  Also he wanted to know if he should take any antibiotics with him.
If just one of three stools is positive for occult blood, do you need to do a colonoscopy?
22-year-old woman.  Group B streptococcus on urine culture in early pregnancy.  Now 35 weeks.  "Do you still do a culture at 35 weeks?"
Two-and-a-half-year-old girl with a neuroblastoma.  Yesterday, mom delivered another baby.  Is it worth checking a chromosome study?
85-year-old man had left bundle branch block and had surgery and had a perioperative myocardial infarction.  So the question was what further evaluation is needed in a patient with left bundle branch block who is undergoing noncardiac surgery?
"How do you workup a rectal prolapse?"
I had a family physician call me from one of the outside clinics about a 23-year-old woman who had a viral illness with myalgias, and her creatine kinase was 8000.  Basically, the question was if influenza or just a regular viral illness can cause a creatine kinase elevation.
This is an ethical question.  I have an elderly lady who is depressed.  But she considers depression a "moral weakness" and says she's not depressed.  So the question is, "Can I give her an antidepressant and say it's an energy pill?"
50-year-old woman with Helicobacter pylori on biopsy at time of upper endoscopy.  The question is how to treat this.
Seven-year-old male on Pepcid and I wanted to start Ritalin.  The question was, "Are there any interactions?"
A woman with palpitations, good history for supraventricular tachycardia, heart rate up to about 200.  The question is whether herbal supplements could be causing her tachycardia.
"That would be an interesting question.  Whether there is any difference between a physician managing Coumadin and Coumadin clinics managing Coumadin."
"Is there any validity to "essential glyconutritionals"?
We had to do some research yesterday.  Hypercoagulation workup.  First of all, "should we work her up?  And what all labs should we do?"
How do I approach treatment of stools with frank white/pink gastrointestinal mucosal sloughing with a lack of blood in a former gastroschisis patient?
Which infants are candidates for Synagis (respiratory-syncytial-virus immune globulin) and when should it start?
41-year-old with wrist pain for one month.  X-ray showed avascular necrosis (didn't get which bone).  We got a magnetic resonance imaging which showed "DRUJ effusion" and something about "TFCC."  I had to ask an orthopedist to help me interpret the report.
What is this lump on the thigh of this woman?
Why does this patient have hypocalcemia?  Is it part of why he feels poorly?
47-year-old man.  What evaluation should be done for erectile dysfunction?
Elderly man with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.  "Just kind of knowing . . . ."  "There's something called neoadjuvant chemotherapy."  "Just trying to figure out the survival benefits with these regimens."
15-year-old girl with chronic headaches.  The question I have is, as we taper her off, can you use triptans to help taper someone who has chronic analgesic induced headache or how do you taper them off?
"Followup for breast biopsy that shows hyperplasia.  Not atypical hyperplasia.  But what do you do about breast hyperplasia on biopsy?"
A woman had Bell's Palsy as a young adolescent.  When she gets a headache, her eye gets droopy on the same side.  "I don't know if there's something like recurrent Bell's Palsy?"
I have a patient with a low hemoglobin 6 weeks ago.  Yesterday I saw him for a viral illness and his total serum iron was worse (down to 10 from 16), but the total iron binding capacity was lower and now in the normal range.  Am I missing something here?  Or could it still be iron deficiency?
What is the name of that diet pill that decreases the absorption of fat?
Is Avandia safe to use in a patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and severe coronary artery disease?
What is the treatment duration for bacteremia (urinary-tract-infection source, Escherichia coli)?
27-year-old homeless man, alcoholic, drug abuser, hepatitis C, hepatitis B.  I'm just looking up with Klonopin, he's using so much alcohol, how safe is it to use Klonopin in someone who uses alcohol and has chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis C.
I've got one for you.  Most common antibiotic associated with Stevens Johnson Syndrome.
14-year-old girl with rectal itching.  Would like to check for pinworms, but to order that test, I need to know the name of it.  I need to know what the test is called.
What is the dose of acyclovir?
70-year-old man with early Alzheimer's disease.  When do you start Aricept and when do you stop it?  What is the risk benefit ratio?  How do you objectively measure whether it's helping?
63-year-old woman went to a vascular surgeon for varicosities and she did a Valsalva (I don't know what test this is) and the blood went down but not up.  So the question is, "Can we just address the painful superficial veins and leave the deep venous system alone or is the problem with the deep system causing the painful superficial veins?
47-year-old man with a gallbladder polyp on right-upper-quadrant ultrasound.  I didn't know what to do.  Do you follow it or what?
79-year-old man.  Does one have to do any workup for coronary ischemia in elderly patients without any prior cardiac history that do have a lot of premature ventricular contractions?
Should we recommend colonoscopy earlier than usual if there is a family history of polyps?
Here's an ethical question:  "Do you tell patients about medical mistakes?"
What is the highest recommended dose of Avapro?
Adult woman, not seen today, but had nonulcer dyspepsia and Helicobacter pylori serology was positive.  Should you treat them with antibiotics and Prilosec without imaging their stomach?
I had to look up the definition of Borderline Personality Disorder.
I saw an 8-year-old girl who kept getting streptococcal sore throat so I cultured the whole family.  What is the best antibiotic for the carrier state?
What's the workup for a 26-year-old woman with weight loss?
45-year-old woman with diarrhea.  "What is dosing on Lomotil?"
13-year-old boy with ventriculoperitoneal shunt, spina bifida, comes in with headaches.  Always a question, is it a shunt malfunction or just a virus?  The question is, "When does he really need a computerized tomography?"
This pharmaceutical representative is trying to promote the 5 in 1 vaccine, Pediarix.  "What is the position of the American Academy of Pediatrics on that?"
Ten-month-old with a buckle fracture of the proximal tibia.  What is the treatment?
With pulmonary embolus, where does the money lie?  Spiral computerized tomography or ventilation perfusion scan?  Which is most cost effective?  Has it been proven which way to go?
We had an 8-year-old girl with joint pain and a positive antistreptolysin O titer but no other symptoms to go with rheumatic fever.  "Is that mild rheumatic fever?"
"I had a 66-year-old lady with an incidental adrenal mass.  Her plasma normetanephrines came back twice the upper limit."  "Then I had this question about which medications affect normetanephrine levels, because she's on theophylline and has diabetes.
This morning I asked my partner, who does treadmills, about a 58-year-old man who complained of typical chest pain and dyspnea.  My question was how should we approach this chest pain.  Should we send him to the cardiologist for further testing, or should we say the treadmill done three years ago was sufficient and work him up for gastroesophageal reflux disease or other causes.
This morning I saw a 13-year-old boy with "nonspecific urinary frequency."  The question is, "How to treat it?"
46-year-old woman.  Two-year history of Raynaud's phenomenon (all 3 color changes).  What is the recommended evaluation and therapy?
Thirty-eight-year-old woman with bloody diarrhea, worse over the past week. I treated her with Flagyl empirically.  I saw her two days later and she was lots better.  No more blood, no fever.  Now her report comes back and the Clostridium difficile is negative but she's growing Salmonella.  "Should I finish the Flagyl or discontinue it?"
We get these young girls with periods every two weeks for a year.  "When do you get concerned?  When do you regulate them?  When do you refer?"
Newborn.  Question from resident to study physician.  Why are oral hypoglycemics contraindicated in diabetic mothers during pregnancy and why was this mother on glyburide and everyone thought that was OK?
"I can tell you one question I had.  I had a patient with dry skin on both palms for years.  Three years ago I did a culture and got Aspergillus and treated him with Sporanox for one week and he got better.  He came in again with lots of scaling and redness. I cultured him again and got one colony of Aspergillus.  I read all these references.  Nothing!
What immunizations are needed at one year old?
I had a trauma patient this morning and the question was, what is the dose of morphine for a 2-year-old.
"What selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor has the highest incidence of serotonergic syndrome?"
22-year-old first prenatal exam.  There is a question on the form, "have you ever been tested for sickle cell trait?"  But what if they haven't been tested?  Is it a screening test that's recommended in pregnancy?
This is a recurring question.  With streptococcal sore throat, what's the youngest age at which the diagnosis of streptococcal sore throat is reasonable?
This question relates to a phone message which said this man wants me to see his wife who has somatization disorder.  What is the difference between somatization disorder and somatoform disorder?
"Where do I get growth charts for Downs babies?"
"What is the difference between gender identification disorder, gender dysphoria, and gender incongruent behaviors?"
Woman here for her Depo-Provera shot.  The nurse got a blood pressure about 160/95 and pulse about 110.  Referring to the elevated blood pressure, the study physician said to the nurse, "I don't think that's a contraindication is it?"
76-year-old woman with bladder cancer, last neoadjuvant chemotherapy was 6 weeks ago.  Came in with a generalized rash, one-half to one centimeter red lesions, not itching, not painful.  So the question is "What is this rash?"
78-year-old woman with anemia, possibly caused by her angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor.  After we switch her to Cozaar, how soon would you expect her to correct?
"Here's one.  Incidence of secondary cellulitis with insect bites."
The study physician received a phone call from a pediatric gastroenterologist in a different city regarding a 2-month-old she had referred with gastroesophageal reflux.  She (study physician) said, "Can you tell me a little bit about how much you're using Prilosec for infants and kids?"
12-year-old girl.  "How cold does it have to be to cancel recess?"
Last week I had a couple of patients with sinusitis whom my partner treated with Avalox and they didn't get better.  I was always told if you overuse fluoroquinolones, you will get resistance.  Our PharmD (Doctor of Pharmacy) in residency always said that.  The drug representative said no, no that's not true and so he said he would send information on it.
"I have a little question in the back of my mind.  34-year-old woman with sore throat and cough.  Husband has a documented peritonsillar abscess.  Are you more likely to have streptococcal pharyngitis if your spouse has an acute peritonsillar abscess?
40-year-old woman came to the emergency room with tetany and sensory changes in her back for 3 days and she had hypomagnesemia.  She also had low potassium and low calcium and the emergency room doctor thought the low magnesium could be due to the low calcium, but I didn't think that was right.  I decided to review the causes of low magnesium and the treatment and associated findings.
A woman with a pulmonary embolus status post pelvic surgery.  She was started on heparin and then Coumadin and had a postoperative hemorrhage at her surgical site so she had an inferior vena cava filter placed and the heparin was stopped.  Now she is 6 months post surgery and the question is whether she should be on anticoagulants in addition to having the filter.
65-year-old man.  "What is the most readily available and best absorbed oral iron preparation?"
73-year-old woman, 13 years ago had colon cancer resected.  She had a colonoscopy and they found one hyperplastic polyp.  The biopsy was negative, but you wonder . . . .  Should she have had a computerized tomography scan to look for metastases?
If one child has streptococcal sore throat and the sibling gets sick, should you culture the sibling or just treat over the phone?
I (investigator) caught the physician looking in a reference and asked what she was looking up.  She said, "I was just wondering how much I can go up on the Imodium?"
"Who would you give primary prophylaxis with aspirin for vascular events?
Lyme disease.  That always seems to raise its ugly head.  Specifically what to tell patients who are concerned about Lyme disease.
21-year-old man.  I looked up to see, in a guy I used Lamisil for toenail fungus, do you need to do liver function tests?
53-year-old man.  What is causing his testicular pain?
I looked up in this reference the definition of tubular adenoma, I was pretty sure it was benign but wanted to double check.
What am I doing wrong with this?"  He said this to another physician as he was trying to get the cryosurgery unit to work to treat a wart.
44 year-old woman.  She has four siblings with adenomatous polyps.  She was screened with a colonoscopy 3 years ago and does not have any.  "When does she need her next colonoscopy?"
6-year-old boy with sinusitis and bronchopneumonia.  What is the dose of Biaxin?
In patients with fatigue, you read about how to work them up and they say what to do for the various causes but "what do you do if the workup is negative?"
The physician came into her office and said 5 words and then walked out:  "Vitiligo.  Autoimmune disease, or not?"
I have a patient with gout.  Between Indocin prophylaxis and colchicine prophylaxis, what is better to prevent gout?
81-year-old man.  When do you do a liver biopsy in a patient with slightly abnormal transaminases and normal liver ultrasound with risk factors for fatty liver and the rest of the workup is negative (for example, hepatitis studies, antibody studies)?  And asymptomatic.
Phone call regarding one-year-old with fever of 102.  What is the dose of ibuprofen for kids?
2-year-old boy with fever and back pain.  What is the normal range for the white blood count in a 26-month-old?
This 38-year-old man came in complaining that he could feel his prostate and it felt full.  "I wasn't sure what to do with him."
One-year-old girl.  Physiologic murmur.  In what percent of healthy well-child checks is a physiologic murmur heard?
I have a question on quinine.  Cramps.  I have not seen in the literature using quinine for cramps.  "I'm not sure if it is still current practice or not."  "Has it fallen out of favor?"  "Do you need to check the electrocardiogram since it's related to quinidine?"
13-year-old boy.  When you have joint custody, does that mean both parents have to agree to tests and treatment or can just one agree?
60-year-old woman with gastric outlet obstruction and probably gastric lymphoma.  "I'm going to have to look that up."
I looked up the maximum dose of Remeron, because someone wanted a refill for 45 milligrams twice a day.
Woman in her late 40's.  My question is, in someone who's asymptomatic with an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, is there any study that tells you or gives you an . . . I don't know how to phrase it.
Five-year-old girl with diffuse alopecia now improving.  She was given the diagnosis of "loose antigen with hair disorder" by my former partner.  Some kind of childhood associated alopecia.  I've never heard of that.  The question was, "What is it?"
Ultraviolet keratitis.  Like welder burns.  Do you need to use antibiotic drops?
76-year-old woman with Parkinson's Disease and hoarseness secondary to that.  What do they do for hoarseness secondary to Parkinson's Disease?
"What is the best exercise for people with degenerative joint disease of the knee?"  She meant aerobic exercise to lose weight.
9-year-old with attention deficit disorder.  On 18 milligrams of Concerta and 5 milligrams of Ritalin in the morning and at noon.  I always thought you just give Concerta once a day.  Why was it that he needed the extra Ritalin?
Newborn with hip click.  Is this hip dislocated?  Study physician's partner wondered if there are any indications for x-rays when suspecting a dislocated hip, or if we only do ultrasound now.
A young guy with oro-genital ulcers.  The question is what is this.
Child with croup.  I treated with a single injection of Decadron 0.6 milligrams/kilogram/dose.  But what is the total maximum single dose?
6-month-old.  When does a kid with an undescended testicle need to be referred?  How long do you wait?
49-year-old woman status post removal of in-situ malignant melanoma from her arm.  What is the risk of metastases because now she has a new lump?
If you want to inject the knee with steroid, do you give it medially or laterally?
Last week we had a 2-year-old with idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura.  So the question was "How many doses of immunoglobulin to give?"
70-year-old man here for complete physical examination.  One of the things I struggle with is what screening tests to do.  I don't know what we really should be doing.
What is the treatment for cryptosporidium?
We have this home for "problem children."  One of the kids bit one of the employees.  I called one of the infectious disease nurses at the hospital here to see what their protocol is for human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis B, hepatitis C.
Positive galactosemia screen, borderline positive.  My question was, "OK, what followup test should I get?"  "What are they testing when they do the newborn screen?"  "OK, now where do we really go from here?"
I (investigator) saw the study physician looking up something in a reference.  I said, "This looks like a question."  She said, "Dose of Zithromax for a 19-pound baby."
"It's just hearsay about . . .like the tuberculin skin test.  It's not clear to me whether it's a requirement.
Here's a question:  Follicle stimulating hormone/luteinizing hormone ratios in the diagnosis of polycystic ovary syndrome.  Recently I've been reading that it's not felt to be a useful test.  Then why are the gynecologists ordering it all the time?  Is it a useful test or not?
"What are the chances of getting a viral gastroenteritis twice in one month?"
50-year-old chronic alcoholic man with markedly elevated alkaline phosphatase, 200 then 300 then 400 and now 1100.  Why does he have this elevated alkaline phosphatase?
Woman with acute vertigo and falling to the left.  (She had a head magnetic resonance imaging.)  "Was there any significance of the . . ." asymmetry of the transverse sinus, right dominant?
A question came up yesterday . . . I don't even know how to say it . . . What is the relative risk or the incidence of streptococcal sore throat in tonsillectomized patients?
Three-and-a-half-month-old boy with the worst case of infected eczema I've ever seen.  "My question is, did the Elidel cause or perpetuate the infection?"
40-year-old female injured her left knee three months ago.  Serial plane films were normal but we just repeated the magnetic resonance imaging because of persistent pain and it still shows the fracture without sign of healing but in good position.  The question is whether to continue conservative treatment with the knee immobilizer or do something more.
Seven-month-old born prematurely.  Mother accused of Munchausen's by proxy, followed at a tertiary center, upset with their care, wanted a second opinion.  I never know what to do with those.  "How can we not accept them?" I guess would be the question.
"This first patient (7-year-old male) had abdominal pain.  There were no real questions except why . . . This kid is clearly atopic.  He saw an allergist at age 5 and the allergist said we need to wait 2 or 3 years before doing a full evaluation.  Do we really need to wait?"
"No big questions except I had the usual prostate-specific antigen conversation."  The study physician and I (investigator) then had a long conversation in which it became clear that the question was whether to do routine prostate-specific antigen screening.
Is this a fungal infection?
"Is it overkill . . . .  I don't know if this is the kind of thing you want.  Forty-four-year-old with change in bowel habits, diarrhea, constipation over the past couple of months.  With that history in a 44-year-old would you refer for colonoscopy?"
New PIXI (peripheral instantaneous x-ray imager) scan and DEXA (dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry) scan.  "Is there any clinical evidence for how the PIXI scan correlates with the DEXA scan?"
75-year-old man with diabetes.  What is the maximum dose of glyburide?
I had a guy, 68-year-old man, with subclavian steal syndrome.  Had to look that up, the signs and symptoms.
Do you know if Armour Thyroid suppresses the thyroid stimulating hormone but leaves the free thyroxine normal?
37-year-old on Triphasil with 10 days of bleeding starting 5 days before the placebo pills.  I'm just checking the dose of Provera for dysfunctional uterine bleeding.
Lady in her 70's with an ileostomy noted increased ileostomy output and wondered if she could have a fistula and if it was urine.  The question was why her ileostomy output was increased.  Was this just diarrhea or something else and then how to find out if it was a fistula.
Last week I had a 72-year-old man with an elevated alkaline phosphatase of approximately 210 units per liter (normal 20 - 125).  I broke it down, but each individual component was normal:  bone approximately 40% (normal 23 to 62%), liver approximately 55% (normal 38 to 72%), and intestinal approximately 5% (normal less than 18%).
15-month-old girl.  At age 12 months she had a microcytic anemia (hemoglobin about 11, mean corpuscular volume about 68 with normal over 75) and I put her on iron for 3 months, but after that she was still anemic (about 12) and the mean corpuscular volume was not back to normal (it was about 73).  We did iron studies and a hemoglobin electrophoresis but these were normal.  Now she has microcytosis but no more anemia.  "Do you need to do anything more?"  "Do I need to check it again or how often?"
11 and 1/2-year-old male with intermittent testicular pain for the last 6 weeks.  Episodic, exam within normal limits, no hernia, urinalysis negative.  The question is, what is the etiology?
I have a patient with iron-deficiency anemia and heme positive stools (69-year-old man).  He refuses a gastroenterology evaluation.  It's more of a legal . . . "How much is enough informed consent?"
Is there any difference among different types of estrogen in terms of adverse effects and benefits, such as vaginal atrophy, mood, and breast tenderness?
"Would any further workup be needed in a patient who is having post traumatic headaches?"
Seven-year-old girl with eczema, no better on hydrocortisone cream.  The physician asked me (investigator), "Do you know if they (meaning physicians at the university) are using Elidel?"  "Is there any concern with using it in terms of toxicity?  Is there any immune suppression with long term use?"
60-year-old man here for preoperative physical for cholecystectomy.  "What percent of patients with porcelain gallbladder will develop cancer and is it really necessary to take it out?"
Here is a nursing home patient (elderly female) (said this while going through his mail) with a pressure ulcer on her heel.  I guess I'm supposed to know this -- which of the dozens of dressings available are best for this?
4-year-old girl.  "What percent of bronchitis in pediatric patients is viral?"  I think 90%.
Refractory vertigo.  That's always a question.  Most things talk about what to do, but in terms of refractory vertigo, that's always hard.
Phone call with otolaryngologist:  "If you have a negative Dix-Hallpike maneuver, but you still think it's benign positional vertigo, will vestibular rehabilitation still help?"
I saw an almost 3-year-old girl this morning.  She had a ventricular-septal-defect murmur at birth, never had an echocardiogram, just went by the sound of it.  She had a little murmur now in the pulmonic area, intermittent, I hear it with inspiration.  The question was, well what is it exactly and where do I look it up exactly and I decided, well, I'm not going to find that anywhere, so I'm referring him on.
A boy with attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder.  What is Spark?  The mother asked me.  I've never heard of it.
19-year-old coming in with "vitiligo."  He said this before seeing the patient.  He said, "Let's just look this up as he pulled a reference off his shelf.  Before he had a chance to look anything up, I (investigator) said, "Before you look, what's the question?"  He said, "Oh, just is there any treatment? And how to distinguish from that fungal infection?
I saw an 8-year-old girl with a chronic vaginal discharge.  I never referred her and I didn't know who I would refer her to anyway.  I never found out what it was.
28-year-old woman with premature ovarian failure, diagnosed at a tertiary center.  She's been on several types of hormone replacement and always gets migraine headaches from them.  The question was what other preparations could we use that would be better for her migraines.
Another area we've had trouble with is Hepatitis C.  I had a male patient I diagnosed with Hepatitis C, sent to a tertiary center where they did a recombinant DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and confirmed type C.  But a different tertiary center tested twice and it was negative.
63-year-old man got hyponatremic (sodium 120, 121) so I had a question about the causes and treatment of that.  He had a seizure.  I was never convinced it was from the low sodium though, because usually it has to be 110 or 115.  So I looked that up to see if that sodium level could cause a seizure.
Fatty liver.  What I don't know is whether biopsy is the standard of care.  "Is that the standard of care?"
Five-year-old boy with a distal radius fracture (buckle fracture).  Should I use a long arm cast or short arm?
Another question I've had.  Singulair and Accolate.  "Do these things work in allergic rhinitis?"
16-year-old with attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder on Dexedrine SR.  The question is whether it is OK to mix these two drugs (Dexedrine and Ritalin) to even out the effect over time.  What are the potential problems with doing this?
Is a uterine ultrasound enough for menometrorrhagia in a 44-year-old?
73-year-old woman, 13 years ago had colon cancer resected.  Now she is itching.  How common is itching as a paraneoplastic syndrome following treatment for colon cancer?
I do not understand the significance of plain urinalyses looking for glucose and albumin.  What is the usefulness of this if they have +1 albumin or +2 albumin, what are they going to do with them?  What is the clinical usefulness of doing this?  If I don't do it, what are the implications for the patient?
I had a 31-year-old woman with a mediastinal mass with dyspnea and dysphagia.  She had a thoracoscopy and biopsy and this showed a noncaseating granuloma.  So now the question was, did she have sarcoid or histoplasmosis?
73-year-old woman.  The radiologist said on the mammogram report, "increased density possibly related to hormone replacement therapy."  "Can they say that?  That seems like a clinical diagnosis."
Here's a good question.  DEXA (Dual-Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry) and computerized tomography bone density are different!  I (investigator) asked her how she would phrase the question.  She said, "Why is there such a discrepancy and which one should we be using?"
I have a dilemma.  9-year-old girl status post appendectomy last summer (one year ago).  Two to three months afterward she started complaining of suprapubic abdominal pain at least two times per week.  "I'm trying to now think how do you evaluate this type of pain.  Is it adhesions?  OK, how do I look at constipation, adhesions . . . how to do one thing to get the answer?  Should she have an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging)?"
85-year-old woman.  Is it smart to give the tetanus shot and the pneumonia shot at the same time?
I have a patient with Graves disease.  Ablation done.  Still hyperthyroid.  Every time I get her lab work back I have to rethink how to adjust her Tapazole.
"Three-week old boy admitted with pyloric stenosis.  Intravenous fluids."  I (investigator) asked what the question was.  She said, "He was still keeping some formula down, but if he did stop eating, I wanted to know what kind of intravenous fluids to give.  I knew how to calculate the rate, I just wanted to know the kind of fluid."
What are the dosage forms of Effexor?
72-year-old female with abdominal pain.  What are the signs and symptoms of mesenteric artery occlusion and how do you test for it?
4-year-old girl with intermittent vomiting, two times per week for the last 5 weeks, always at night.  The question is "What is it?"
50-year-old man with ulcerative colitis.  He's been passing bright red blood for the past few days.  He's on Asacol 400 milligrams three times a day.  My question is, can I increase his Asacol?
Last Thursday a 52-year-old woman fell on an outstretched arm and she had some swelling.  Her x-ray showed a chip fracture off the triquetrum or lunate.  This was the first time I had a fracture like that and the question was how to treat this.
Is the 40-milligram Lipitor tablet scored?
61-year-old man.  Are there any competitors to Androgel?  I looked it up in a reference in the exam room.
50-year-old woman with Helicobacter pylori on biopsy at time of upper endoscopy.  She had a good question.  She asked me how long she should continue the Nexium after she finishes the 10-day course for treatment of the Helicobacter pylori.  I (study physician) didn't know.
I (investigator) caught the physician looking in a reference.  "I'm just looking up the dose of Zoloft."  (Actually the maximum dose.)
60-year-old man.  Low calcium on screening labs.  History of thyroidectomy for hyperthyroidism.  I followed up the low calcium with parathyroid hormone, phosphorus, and vitamin D levels which confirmed hypoparathyroidism.  Patient was totally asymptomatic.  Why do I need to treat?  Can it be left alone until he develops symptomatic hypocalcemia?
3-year-old boy.  Phone call from mother.  The dentist says he's grinding his teeth a lot at night and the dentist is concerned, but he didn't tell her what to do.  So the question is what to do.  Psychological treatment?  Medical treatment?
An 18-month old in for a well-child check.  We always wait two days after a fever goes away before giving any vaccines.  Is there any scientific data to support this?
Two-year old girl with Kawasaki's diagnosed about 7 days into her illness.  There is a recommended aspirin blood level for kids with rheumatoid arthritis but not that I could find for Kawasaki's disease.  "Is there any utility in shooting for that blood level in a patient with Kawasaki's disease or should you just go with the recommended dose?"
"Are the Typhoid vaccine pills on the market?"
Five-year-old boy seen by my partner for kindergarten physical, mentioned he had been having some chest pain.  Got an electrocardiogram which showed a QTc (corrected QT interval) of 440 milliseconds, otherwise normal electrocardiogram.  "Any further workup needed?"
What is the conservative treatment of tarsal tunnel syndrome?
This isn't a major one but this patient has had a cough for over a year, nonproductive, no wheezing.  One of her parents has asthma, aspirin sensitivity and nasal polyps.  I was just wondering what the inheritance of that is.  Autosomal dominant or what?
Seventeen-year-old girl going to Haiti.  At what age can you use oral typhoid vaccine?
54-year-old white female presents with respiratory failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.  Also elevated creatine phosphokinase (greater than 600) with about 35% MB fraction (normal up to 9%), but negative electrocardiogram, negative Troponin-T and no chest pain.  The question is whether this represents a myocardial infarction in addition to the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.
21-year-old woman.  "For people with recurrent bacterial vaginitis, do you do any suppressive treatment?"
Rhabdomyolysis.  53-year-old farmer.  On exam, had mildly tender thighs.  I just got a creatinine kinase almost on a lark and it was 676.  "What do I do now?"
64-year-old woman complaining of trouble finding words.  Magnetic resonance imaging showed multiple high signal intensity changes in the periventricular white matter with an orientation suggesting multiple sclerosis.  I didn't know what to do.
Barotrauma -- how does it present in the ears?  Forty-year old man who went scuba diving.
Cough for one week, not getting better. 17-year-old girl.  The question is, should she have antibiotics.
13 and 11/12-year-old boy, lives in a group home, has had neck pain for two days.  The question is, "Do you get an x-ray or not?"
78-year-old woman with anemia, possibly caused by her angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor.  Is Cozaar an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor-2?
Drug representative visiting.  I had a patient with hypertension, well-controlled.  I started him on Celebrex and the blood pressure went to 200/110.  "Can this happen?"
The nurse came in and said he had to rewrite the prescription for cholestyramine light for 90 days because 4 cans was not enough.  He called the pharmacist and told him she was getting two scoops twice a day and wanted to know how long one can would last.
Thirty-five-year-old woman.  Two days ago she had some local anesthesia for minor surgery.  Yesterday she had some fullness in her ankles and fingers and she says everything feels stiff.  No arthralgias, just edema.  She has a little lymphopenia so it may be viral but . . . .  "What would cause this?"
85-year-old woman.  Hemoglobin has been about 11 for 5 years, normal iron studies.  If you have someone with borderline anemia (hemoglobin 10 or 12), when are Procrit (erythropoietin) injections indicated?
Monday I admitted a 7-month-old boy with a reaction to peanuts.  I called an allergist and asked him what he's seen in kids this age with a first exposure to peanuts.  Do you get peanut exposure in utero was the question.
I just saw a baby with a sacral dimple.  What test do you do to check for a tethered cord?  Magnetic resonance imaging or ultrasound?
12-year-old boy with autism and attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder.  What would an appropriate sedative be for occasional procedures such as haircuts and dental appointments?
5-year-old boy with cough, possibly pertussis.  What is the dose of erythromycin for pertussis?
"Have you ever prescribed Zantac 300 milligrams twice a day?"
Partner of study physician got a lab report that a urine culture was growing gram negative bacilli.  She wanted to know if that was consistent with Escherichia coli.
81-year-old man here for prothrombin time and dyspnea on exertion.  "What is the appropriate interval for doing prothrombin times once they're therapeutic?"
Could diphtheroids cause an abscess and should they be treated?
"What do you do with hilar adenopathy in a kid with pneumonia?  Is this a normal finding with pneumonia?  Do you need to worry about a lymphoma?"
A woman admitted with asthma.  She said one of her children has a rare hemoglobinopathy.  (The patient named the hemoglobinopathy.)  I couldn't remember what that was so I looked it up in a reference in the hospital library.
"Are these Xopenex studies showing fewer side effects reliable?
I had a man in the hospital a week ago.  He had a superficial vein thrombosis.  I know you're not supposed to anticoagulate if it's superficial but I repeated the ultrasound three or four days later and it showed "slight extension."
60-year-old woman presented yesterday with a perfect story for influenza, except there's no influenza around. (It's June.)  Do you use anti-influenza medications?
2-month-old boy had a seizure versus apneic episode at age one week while I was making rounds.  She said, I'm going to give his immunizations today.  "I just want to make sure it's OK to give his DTaP (diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis vaccine)."
What is the best treatment for an excess amount of foreskin left after circumcision?  Also skin bridging to the glans.  What should be done with that?
A newborn was found to be hypoglycemic at birth on routine screen and despite treatment it persisted and was not responsive to treatment.  The question was what to do about this.
9-year-old boy with self-injurious behaviors.  The question is, "What would be an appropriate short acting sedative?"
71-year-old lady with elevated potassium (5.3 with normal 3.5 to 5.0).  No other laboratory abnormalities.  "Do I check a phosphate?"
72-year-old man with hypertension.  He is on Lotrel 5/20, Atenolol 100 milligrams, Cardura 4 milligrams and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 milligrams.  His blood pressure today is 166/72 by the nurse and I got 180 systolic.  The question is where to go from here with his antihypertensives.
61-year-old man with rash on face, thought to be secondary to photosensitivity from herbal medication, but now worse even after stopping this preparation.  "How are we going to fix him?"  "What else could be doing this?"
46-year-old woman with pituitary.  There should be a book with all you need to know about prescribing steroids.  It should have all types of steroids and a comparison scale with the concept of equivalent doses and the concept of physiologic levels and the concept of stress dosing, and how to bump up and taper down.
A perpetual question.  What to do with obesity?
"If their high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol is 70 and the low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol is 160, who wins the battle?"
Our clinic just instituted computer-assisted detection (CAD) for mammography.  "Any better?"  "Increased false positives?"
What is the dose of Valtrex for cold sores?
If a kid has a nondescript rash, would you ever treat for scabies and see if they get better?
69-year-old woman, diagnosis of temporal arteritis 10 years ago after a biopsy.  Then got off prednisone after 8 years.  Recently has been having headaches and blurred vision. Now, today she says she's seeing double (physician said this before going in to see her).  "So I'm wondering what's going on with her.  I'm wondering if we should get magnetic resonance imaging."
College student.  Suicide attempt by taking 50 Excedrin Migraine and 50 Ibuprofen.  That amounts to 12 grams of Tylenol.  Is that a toxic dose?
A question the study physician wrote on the data form from a previous visit:  "28-year-old white female notes increased acne after starting Ortho Tri-Cyclen.  Is there a better choice?"
Three-and-a-half-week-old with persistent indirect hyperbilirubinemia (up to 24).  What is the workup?
What do you do with heparin anticoagulation in pregnancy?
With a 6-month to 12-month old infant, how do you supplement their diet if the mother is a vegetarian and wants her child to also be a vegetarian? How do you give them enough protein?
70-year-old woman.  A year after stopping Prempro she was still having hot flashes.  She (the patient) asked, "Shouldn't a 70-year-old woman stop having hot flashes?"
Last week I had an adult woman seen in the emergency room with dyspnea and she had a mildly elevated D-dimer.  My question was, "What do I do with this?"
I saw a young boy.  "What is the definition of conduct disorder?"
I saw a lady with a sore thumb.  I thought it was gout.  What is the sensitivity of joint aspiration in diagnosing gout?
A school-age child in for a physical exam has trace hematuria on the dipstick.  "Where do you go from there?"
7-year-old girl from an orphanage in Eastern Europe, received the BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin) vaccine.  Had a 12-millimeter tuberculin skin test.  Has had up to 17-millimeter reaction in the past, didn't know if she had been treated before.  The question was "What will happen to the tuberculin skin test in a year when she gets tested again?  Will it come down?
Swelling in the body.  Non-specific swelling, for example in the hands, not necessarily dependent edema.  You do a workup and there's no proteinuria and no kidney problem.  Is it even worthwhile working it up?
One-year-old.  I have to look up head sizes, familial megancephaly.  I (investigator) asked how he would phrase the question.  He said, "What is the differential diagnosis of large head size?"
6 and 11/12-year-old boy referred from a family physician with adrenarche.  Wondering about precocious puberty.  Did a bone age which was consistent with 8 years old, so I (study physician) said that's significant.  But when I called the mother she said, well that's only one year, is that significant?  So my question was, "What is a significant bone age discrepancy?"
How do you tell the difference between treating anxiety and treating benzodiazepine withdrawal symptoms when someone is trying to decrease their benzodiazepine intake?
I have 2 kids with migraine, age 10 and 14.  "What is a specific treatment for migraine in pediatrics?"
45-year-old woman, she's active but not on her feet all day, complaining of edema.  Pedal edema, mildly edematous, leg edema with no signs of venous insufficiency or other causes for edema.  "What do you do with these people?"
51-year-old woman with myasthenia gravis.  I've been having trouble finding out what drugs exacerbate myasthenia gravis.
What is the sensitivity of the gonorrhea and chlamydia tests we do (PCR or whatever it is)?  Most of the ones I get are negative but can we trust that?
I have a girl with facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy.  I would like to know what the natural history is and if there's any way to treat it.
45-year-old woman.  "I looked up the definition for malignant hypertension following a request from a patient. They emailed wanting to know if they had it.
A nine-year-old came in this morning to follow up a recent hospitalization for pneumonia.  Now he's much better.  Chest x-ray is better.  White count is 8,000 to 10,000.  But about 900,000 platelets.  What should I do?  Should I repeat it and how soon?  Should I worry about it?  I said we will repeat it in 1 month.  Do I need to do it sooner?
Consult from a family physician.  17-day-old girl with fever of 102.  Blood culture showed alpha streptococcus.  One question was whether this was most likely a pathogen or a contaminant.
I (investigator) noted an open book on the physician's desk and asked if there was an associated question recently.  "I was looking up to see what the standards are for hypertension in the newborn and the workup of hypertension if it continued."
Is it legal to send prescriptions to Canada?
31-year-old pregnant woman with a cough.  I'm just double checking to see if Augmentin is safe during pregnancy and to see if guaifenesin is safe.
"Care of metacarpal fractures."  Relates to a patient seen within the last month.
Two-day-old.  Why are infants of diabetic mothers more likely to have polycythemia?
15-month-old.  Was he adequately vaccinated for polio or did he need another?  He's had three polios so far.
"Why does the American Academy of Pediatrics, American Academy of Family Physicians, and the Centers for Disease Control recommend five Diphtheria-Pertussis-Tetanus immunizations but the State of Iowa only requires three before school entry?  And only three polios?"
A phone message to one of the study physician's partners, quickly became a question for the whole group of physicians in the office that day.  The phone message referred to an 8-year-old boy and read "Problem with gagging very easily with bad smells or gross things.  Mom asks -- anything that can be done?"
Four-day-old male under bililights.  The congenital adrenal hyperplasia test came back positive.  How do I deal with this?
42-year-old woman got 7 days of antibiotics for a cellulitis on her finger.  Some use 7 days.  Some use 10.  Some use 14.  I know it's been studied for streptococcal pharyngitis and urinary tract infections but cellulitis?
Ten-year-old male referred with developmental delay (age 4) and attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder, on Strattera.  "When do you use Strattera and why would you use that out of the gait (rather than a stimulant)?"
25-year-old woman with severe anxiety, on Xanax, and also vomiting because of gastroesophageal reflux disease.  I know they make a topical Ativan gel.  They use it for hospice patients with vomiting.  So I was wondering about using it in her.  I don't know how you'd switch to that exactly.  It's kind of a question running through my mind.
81-year-old female with atrial fibrillation and edema.  She looked sick so I got a digoxin level and it was 3.0.  She was on digoxin 0.25 milligrams once a day.  "How is the dose to be adjusted?"
17-year-old girl with institutional colon.  The question is how to treat her.
This patient was hospitalized and found to have rectal carcinoid.  The question was treatment and how often do they metastasize.
50-year-old woman.  "Why does every woman over age 30 complain of trouble remembering things?"
Adding Cytomel (T3) to augment Synthroid in patient's with depression and hypothyroidism.  I can't find any good evidence for that.  I (investigator) asked her what the question was and suggested, "Is that a legitimate thing to do?"  She agreed that was the question.
She (study physician) asked me (investigator), "You can use Questran for cholestatic pruritus, right?"
Seven-month old boy with bronchiolitis.  "How much methylprednisolone can I give him?"
Six-month-old girl.  That's one question that comes up.  "When do you recheck ears after otitis media?"
What is the sensitivity and specificity of straight-leg raising and other physical exam findings for herniated disks?
What is the best obesity surgery?  Vertical banded gastroplasty, Roux en Y?  And what are the indications for surgery?
82-year-old woman.  Can Tamoxifen (being used for breast cancer) cause elevated blood pressure?
This patient's blood sugar is fine, but her father has Type 2 diabetes and several nieces and nephews have Type 1 diabetes.  The patient has one daughter.  The question is, how frequently should she (the daughter) be screened for diabetes.
What is the accuracy of non-finger-stick blood sugar checkers?
Newborn at 38-weeks gestation, term, Cesarean section for fetal distress, uncontrolled diabetic.  Oximeter was 50, not tachypneic, no murmur.  I (investigator) prompted, "So the question was, what's causing the low oxygen saturations"?  The physician said, "Yes, my partner said, 'I didn't have any idea what was going on.'"
60-year-old woman with gastric outlet obstruction and probably gastric lymphoma.  The endoscopist wrote "linitis plastica."  I can't remember what that means.
The study physician wrote this:  "49-year-old man. (1) how best to diagnose fatty liver? (does this man's morbid obesity and isolated alanine aminotransferase elevation qualify) (2) how much workup is necessary?  (3) any management available other than weight loss?
57-year-old woman with irregular heart rhythm had been started on flecainide.  I (investigator) saw her looking in a reference.  I said, "I saw you looking in . . . "  She said, "Tambocor.  I didn't know what it was.
61-year-old man with photodermatitis, taking Herbalife.  Are any of the ingredients in Herbalife photosensitizers?
Tachypneic baby that didn't get tachypneic until day-of-life one.  Nobody knew what was wrong.
A woman with lymphoma undergoing chemotherapy and wanted birth control.  The question was what were the options in this patient with lymphoma, undergoing chemotherapy, and history of thromboembolic disease.
23-year-old man with tinea cruris and athlete's foot.  He's a student so he doesn't have any money.  I looked up to see if you could use Sporanox for tinea cruris.
If a child throws up their medication, how long since the medication was given before you can assume it was absorbed and you don't need to repeat the dose?
79-year-old man in for followup of sciatica.  My question is . . . Obviously with definite signs of spinal cord compression we get active and do further workup.  The question is . . . Some patients come in with vague symptoms and soft signs.  "How far do we go in working them up?"
37-year-old man.  I looked up the smallest dose of Prinivil in the exam room, online.
Do ventilation tubes make tympanic thermometer readings even less accurate?
36-year-old woman.  The thyroid stimulating hormone is low but the free thyroxine is normal.  What does it mean?
75-year-old man.  What ultrasound surveillance is necessary after carotid endarterectomy and is any ultrasound surveillance needed?
Clonus in a 2-month-old.  Mother noticed it.  Is this abnormal?
My partner had a 13-year-old boy with exudative tonsillitis.  I (investigator) asked what the question was.  She (physician) said, "What would be the differential?"
"Why is it difficult for postmenopausal women to lose weight?"
3-year-old boy with dysuria.  Urinalysis totally clear except for many calcium oxalate crystals.  Can that cause dysuria?
Man with partially avulsed finger nail from snowblower accident.  "What would you use for antibiotics?"
Five-week-old with colic who cries so hard she passes out.  No seizure activity.  How young do you see breath holding spells?
"13-year-old boy, very overweight, has gynecomastia.  Mother said, 'I just read a magazine article about a treatment for gynecomastia.'  Is there a pill for gynecomastia?  I didn't know of any."
Is there a drug for chlamydia if the patient cannot swallow pills?
What is the risk of stroke in a 74-year-old woman with atrial fibrillation, not on anticoagulants?
Young man on Paxil.  He's on 20 milligrams once a day.  He wants samples.  We have samples of the extended release but not the regular.  "Let me see what's equal."
7-year-old boy with attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder.  Does Metadate ER come in a lower dosage form than 20 milligrams?
A 2-year-old whose relatives had neuroblastoma.  Mom asked if she needed to be screened for neuroblastoma.  I didn't know so I called an oncologist.  He said, "I don't know either.  I'll have to look it up."
35-year-old woman with multiple antibiotic allergies.  There are only certain antibiotics she can take.  Just a couple of quinolones.  "But the question is, if she had been positive for streptococcus, I don't know if quinolones . . . what anti . . . ?"
68-year-old man with an isolated elevation of the alkaline phosphatase.  "How far do you go with the workup?"
50-year-old man.  High-density-lipoprotein cholesterol is high but low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol is also high.  Which one wins?
54-year-old man taking saw palmetto.  I can't think of the enzyme it blocks off the top of my head.
"In patients who have had a hysterectomy, is there any sense in doing pelvic exams?
5-year-old girl, inpatient, with possible achondroplasia.  However, the pediatric radiologist didn't think it was achondroplasia so the question was, "What is the differential diagnosis of bony aplasia?"
74-year-old man with dyspnea.  Remote smoker.  "I'm just wondering if there's anything else that could be causing it and if there's any treatment."
74-year-old female with memory loss and a negative workup.  "What's the right dose of Ginko?
What do you do with serous otitis?  Long term antibiotics?  Nose spray?  Decongestants?  I do nothing usually and then if it's persistent, when do you refer and what do you do about it?
12-year-old boy got his first Hepatitis B vaccine a year ago.  Mother just spaced it off and never came back for the second in the series.  Does he need to start over and if not, when should the second shot be given and when should the third be given?
I always thought atrial fibrillation would lead to emboli in large vessels but this woman had a retinal artery occlusion.  "Is there any predilection for the size of the vessel occluded by an embolus from atrial fibrillation?  Can it be any size vessel?"
This is a 12-year-old girl with rectal itching at night and her pinworm slide was positive.  The question is how often to give Vermox.
We saw this lady with a history of renal stones and hypercalcemia.  The parathyroid hormone was 5 (normal 10 to 65), the calcium was about 9 (normal) and the phosphorus was about 2.0 (should be greater than 2.5).  "So it's like, OK, what do we do with this now?"
I looked up the immunizations for an 18-month-old.
I had a woman with perioral dermatitis.  I didn't know what it was.
Four-month-old.  "Positional plagiocephaly in infants.  "Do you need to put that head banding thing on?"  Do they need treatment?"  Cranial banding.  We're putting kids on their back now.  Do they need that helmet?
Does Griseofulvin come in a 375 milligram pill?
Now that we have the Women's Health Initiative results, in patients who have been on Premarin for 15 years and are now 70 years old, are you pulling them off?
21-year-old female.  Father had a coronary angioplasty at age 36.  Do you screen her for coronary artery disease and if so when do you start screening?
35-year-old woman with insomnia.  I looked up dosages of Celexa and Ambien online in the exam room.
60-year-old white female.  What are the eye manifestations of sarcoid?
51-year-old woman with myasthenia gravis.  Has this erythema multiforme like rash.  She went to a dermatologist who said, no, it's more like some kind of drug reaction.  So, "what skin disease does she really have?"  "I don't know what to really have her on for this skin problem."
22-year-old man on Ritalin for attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder.  After he takes his dose, he craves cigarettes.  I (investigator) said, "I've never heard of that."  She (physician) said, "I haven't either."
38-year-old woman.  "Does all axillary breast tissue have to be removed?"
10-year-old girl complaining of a buffalo hump on the back of her neck.  What causes a buffalo hump besides Cushing Syndrome?
43-year-old woman.  I don't know if she's neurotic or what, but she complains of environmental toxins.  What to do in this situation?
"What is the chance that aspirating a joint effusion that is not red or tender will yield anything diagnostically?"
Fourteen-month-old girl.  We thought the girl had Fifth Disease.  "Do you get hives with Fifth Disease?" was my question.
50-year-old woman with an adrenal "incidentaloma" on computerized tomography scan.  "Does positron-emission tomography (PET) scanning have a place in the evaluation of an adrenal incidentaloma?"  When should you order it?  What is the role of positron-emission tomography in this situation?  Would a positron-emission tomography scan tell you if it was cancer?
Another one I always have is preventive care of people over 80 years old.  Is there any consensus at all on lipid screening or colon cancer screening, for example?
49-year-old woman in for a preoperative physical.  She has a lump in the groin.  What is this lump in the groin?
My last patient this morning is an 11-year-old boy.  "Why would he be mildly anemic and have schistocytes?"  "I'm not sure what causes schistocytes."
Did we talk about whether crack smoking can precipitate sickle cell crisis?
One-year-old boy.  "Are we going to be too late for the hepatitis vaccine?"
New congenital cataracts in a child.  When should you be able to pick that up?
35-year-old man.  What are the long term complications for coarctation of the aorta repair in an adult who had the repair as a child?
40-year-old man with diabetes, wanted disability.  They never teach this in medical school but it's so common in practice.  How to do a disability evaluation (was my (investigator) sense of the question).
Seven-year-old boy with possible attention deficit disorder.  I (investigator) asked him what the question was and he said, "Well, I think 5 milligrams of Ritalin twice a day should be high enough to have some effect with a seven-year-old, but the question was, do you increase the dose or do you just put him on it or what?"
Mother has juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.  "Is the baby at high risk for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, and what would we be looking for in the baby?"
What do you do with a Papanicolaou smear that has no endocervical cells?  I usually repeat it but what if the second one shows no endocervical cells?
I had a kid with congenital hypothyroidism and I tried to look up how often and when do you need to monitor his thyroid stimulating hormone and thyroxine.
83-year-old woman with chronic edema in her legs.  She scraped it and got cellulitis.  Now do I keep her on antibiotics until every bit of redness is gone, or can I stop now assuming the redness is consistent with resolving cellulitis?
44-year-old woman.  No period since March (it is late June).  So I asked Dr. X (family physician partner), "Is there a chance she could be pregnant and I asked about blood versus urine pregnancy test, whether either is better."
Elidel.  I wasn't sure if I could use it for cradle cap.
17-year-old girl complaining that her left lower quadrant is "hard."  My question was what is the best way to evaluate this.
45-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus, blue toes due to vascular disease, history of reflex sympathetic dystrophy.  The question is, "What is reflex sympathetic dystrophy?"
What is the best antibiotic for a severe corneal abrasion?
Indications for carotid endarterectomy.  Woman with 70-80% stenosis so she's not quite there, but I don't know.
Does every stroke patient need to be admitted to the hospital?
I wish we had some sort of screening questionnaire for irritable bowel syndrome.
33-year-old woman.  Father and brother have Huntington's Chorea.  "What are the warning signs of Huntington's Chorea?  Is depression an early sign?
35-year-old female with "throat feels funny" Possible allergies.  She couldn't describe the feeling other than her throat feels funny. The question is what is going on?  Could it be related to her beta blocker?
74-year-old female with memory loss and a negative workup.  What is the dose of Aricept?
32-year-old exposed to chickenpox.  She had the first immunization but not the second.  Her question and mine:  "Since she didn't get the second shot, will she get a mild case or full blown case or what?"
What immunizations should this 45-year-old woman get before she goes to Viet Nam in two weeks?
What is the drug of choice for onychomycosis and would griseofulvin work since it is less expensive?
80-year-old man with shortness of breath, swollen leg, and history of pulmonary fibrosis.  "This reminds me of a patient with a calf vein thrombosis and the question was, 'What do you do with a calf vein thrombosis?'"
48-year-old man.  Another question is refractory hyperlipidemia (triglycerides 2000) and combinations of drugs, for example a statin with gemfibrozil.  "Some people use a low dose statin with gemfibrozil, some use high-dose statin with gemfibrozil, and of course there are all the warnings, but in a practical sense, what do you do?"
What are diencephalic seizures?
I had a 70ish-year-old woman who had some sort of neurologic event when she was visiting someone in the nursing home.  We got some labs and her free thyroxine was 0.7, normal is 0.8 to 1 and her thyroid stimulating hormone was 1.8 which is pretty low for that thyroxine.  So we spent 30 to 40 minutes using an online reference.
27-year-old woman.  "For someone on Ritalin for adult attention deficit disorder and depression, who has an elevated blood pressure and pulse, is there any alternative?
"The question is what is rhinomanometry and can we do it here.  I've never heard of it."
44-year-old woman.  What is the dose of Meridia?
What are the differences between iodine and Technetium thyroid scans?
I have one more question but I haven't figured out what to do with this lady or even what the question is.  She was an elderly woman referred by her dentist or ophthalmologist, I forget, but they said she didn't have much of a diastolic blood pressure.  We got 150/0 here.  So we were trying to figure out the differential diagnosis and what to do with that.
80-year-old woman.  I didn't look this up.  Just kind of used common sense.  "Is there any certain time you quit doing Papanicolaou smears?  80's or 70's?
8-year-old boy.  A question that sometimes comes up.  Of how much worth is the rectal exam in planning therapy for a child with encopresis, if you feel stool on the abdominal exam and the history is compatible with overflow incontinence?
1-year-old boy got chickenpox vaccine a couple of weeks ago and now has a red reaction at the site with red bumps.  So whether that was a reaction to the vaccine or what, I didn't know.
Ludiomil.  Patient came in to the emergency room on it.  "What in the heck is that?"
50-year-old woman with elevated serum calcium.  Our upper limit is about 10.1.  A year ago her calcium was about 9.5.  This year it was about 11 and a repeat was about 10.5.  Her alkaline phosphatase was normal.  The question is, "How aggressive do you get with people like that?"
Last night I saw a 1-year-old with Turner's syndrome, has puffy feet.  Mother asked me how long before the puffiness in feet goes away.
56 year-old female.  Under what circumstances do you stop estrogen?
Two kids going to India near Bombay.  What is the alternative to mefloquine if they are going to a chloroquin-resistant area?
"What is the complete workup for a meconium plug in a newborn?"
43-year-old woman in for a physical exam.  She's constipated.  She's on Wellbutrin and I think that can do it but I don't know how common that is.
"What is effect of magnesium on potassium?"
12-year-old boy with urinary frequency for several weeks.  When do you refer to a urologist?  How much urinary frequency is normal and can just be chalked up to nerves, with a normal urinalysis?  What's your threshhold for referring?
46-year-old woman.  "Look at this Papanicolaou smear.  It shows atypical squamous cells of uncertain significance but the comment is 'cannot rule out high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion.'  Normally we just repeat in 4 months for atypical squamous cells of uncertain significance, but what do you do with this comment?
I have a 30-year-old woman with Type 1 diabetes and when we started her on Lipitor, her sugars went up into the 300's.  She asked me if Lipitor could cause this and I didn't know, so looked it up in a reference.
33-year-old woman with vaginal bleeding had a positive pregnancy test.  "After a miscarriage, how soon should the beta-human chorionic gonadotrophin levels fall?"
Two patients with the same question regarding asymptomatic femoral bruits.  "Why does she have this bruit?  Do I need to look for peripheral vascular disease?"
6 and 1/2-year-old girl.  What's causing her ear pain?  She has a normal ear on exam and normal tympanogram.  Is it just eustachian tube dysfunction?
The physician received a lab result from his nurse.  Man over age 90.  "So this will be another question.  Just the evaluation of monoclonal gammopathy.
67-year-old female with hypertension.  Her question was, what do you do about widened pulse pressure.  Should you treat it any differently from just systolic hypertension?
What congenital syndrome would cause decreased hip mobility and a wide-based gait?
Neonate with methamphetamine exposure.  Potential adoptive parents wonder about long term outcomes of babies exposed to methamphetamine.
What are the dosage forms of Percocet?
"Dr. X (study physician's partner) have you ever treated Mycobacterium gordonae?"  "How do I treat this guy?  Where do I go with this guy?"
6-year-old here for attention-deficit-hyperactivity-disorder evaluation.  The current thinking is that 95% is history and we don't do labs, but it's always nice to get a refresher on that.  You always wonder, "Am I doing enough?  Am I not doing enough?"  (Meaning medical workup.)
Seven-month old had a second occurrence of an abscess next to the rectum, grape sized.  I (investigator) prompted the physician for what the question was.  He said, "What treatment is appropriate?"
The study physician mentioned this patient was a "puzzle."  I (investigator) asked if there was a question there.  She said the patient (46-year-old woman) had heel pain worse in the morning and on first standing to walk.  So I'm sure there are questions in there.  "What's causing her pain?"
Last night I saw a newborn that was delivered after a Mity-Vac times three and forceps which never really got used.  The question was how to evaluate this kid for a subgaleal hematoma.  Head ultrasound?  Computerized tomography?
Does a five-month-old with a ventricular septal defect meet criteria for respiratory syncytial virus vaccine (sic) (Synagis)?
13-year-old, former shaken baby with resultant spastic quadriplegia and cortically blind.  The concern is that after a suppository he gets red in the face and squeezes out all these little pebbles.  "Is an unprovoked stool every 3 days that bad?"  Does it lead to perforation?
Why did the nurse circle the head circumference?  "Is 48 centimeters big for a kids head?"  This was a 3-year, 7 1/2-month-old girl.
17-year-old female with sore throat and mono-like syndrome had elevated bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and alkaline phosphatase.  The question is, what is the etiology of this?
The mother of this 9-month-old with lipomeningomyelocele wanted to know if she is at high risk for future pregnancies for meningomyelocele and if she should take mega-dose folic acid (4 milligrams per day).
I saw a lady with what looked like a squamous cell carcinoma.  I excised it.  The path report said in the plane of the section there was no malignancy but there was cellular atypia.  I didn't know if I should excise further or what.
What is the Augmentin dose for this 16-kilogram girl with otitis media?  Actually I know that, but what I really need to know is what concentrations Augmentin syrup comes in.
65-year-old woman has not seen a physician in years.  Has cancer of the cervix, extending into vagina and parametrium and has edema of her legs.  Has back pain.  Bone scan and x-rays did not show metastases.  What is her prognosis?
42-year-old man.  Is he diabetic is the question.  He has impaired fasting glucose (114).  He had a 2-hour-glucose-tolerance test and his fasting was 109, one hour 212 (inadvertently done, I just wanted fasting and two hour), and 2 hour was 66.  Glycosylated hemoglobin was about 5.
63-year-old woman with a splenectomy years ago.  Does she need the Pneumovax every 5 years?
Two weeks ago I was deposed on a patient who was in a motor vehicle accident and had heart disease.  One of the questions the attorney asked was "Is there a source you can go to to see if someone with heart disease should be driving?"
16-year-old girl got a tattoo from an unlicensed tattoo artist 3-4 months ago.  Can a 16-year-old give consent for a human immunodeficiency virus test?
83-year-old female in for physical exam.  (1) When do you stop doing mammograms? (2) When do you stop getting DEXA (Dual Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry) scans? (3) When do you back off from aggressively treating cholesterol, Type 2 diabetes, coronary artery disease?
Today a patient called who wants to get pregnant.  22-year-old woman on nortriptylene.  So just managing depression in pregnancy.
51-year-old female with sinusitis.  What antibiotics can be used in a patient with myasthenia gravis?
"Is this herpes?"  Refers to a 20 year-old woman with genital lesions.
What is the lowest possible maintenance dose of prednisone for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that will do anything rather than just a placebo effect?  Is it just physiologic to give 1 milligram twice a day?
We had a kid, 5-year-old, with a fever of 104, headache, dizziness, hallucinations.  We thought it was the flu, but did a lumbar puncture, and the fluid was clear, looked good.  But had some trouble getting the fluid.  The next night he wouldn't walk, wouldn't lay down, crying with pain, would not bear weight.  So I called my partner and said,  "What do you think?"  "All right, what is this?"
The big debate now . . . we were always taught that percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomies make reflux worse, but a recent study seemed to show that reflux is not a contraindication to putting them in.
10-year-old boy.  What behavioral interventions are available and useful in treating this child who is currently skipping school, oppositional, with history of attention deficit disorder, fetal alcohol syndrome, oppositional defiant disorder, because whatever they're doing now is not working?
Phone call from mother to nurse regarding 2-year-old boy.  "How big does a kid need to be to go into a hot tub with water approximately 104 degrees?"
In people who have multiple somatic complaints, we're supposed to be suspicious that they're depressed.  But if you give selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are they just as likely to get better as patients with more traditional depression?  Should every older person with more than three complaints get a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor?
Is the coccyx fractured?  This was the question as the physician was looking at the x-ray of a young girl (about 7 years old).
80-year-old woman having total knee replacement in for preoperative physical exam.  I had to look up the different stages of melanoma.
45-year-old woman.  The study physician's partner called her in to see this patient's rash.  The question is, "What is this rash?"
27-year-old woman had a miscarriage (actually at 4-5 months) and has anticardiolipin antibodies.  My question was how to treat that.
60-year-old woman with gastric outlet obstruction clinically and on computerized tomography scan.  "Should she be admitted or should we get an EGD (esphogagogastroduodenoscopy) as an outpatient and work her up as an outpatient?"
81-year-old woman moved into a separate-structure retirement home and it had mold in the basement.  "What degrees of mold exposure and what molds can cause these kinds of symptoms that they talk about in this magazine (hemoptysis, memory loss)?"
Irregular menstrual bleeding is such a big problem.  For example, women on Depo-Provera with spotting or women on oral contraceptives with amenorrhea or irregular bleeding.
37-year-old on Triphasil with 10 days of bleeding starting 5 days before the placebo pills.  The study physician asked me (investigator) how I would treat this patient.
13-year-old girl with abdominal pain and depression.  I never put a 13-year-old on Xanax before, "so, I'll probably look it up later."  But then she started looking it up.  I (investigator) asked what the question was.  Was it the dose or . . . .  She (physician) said she's never used it in kids before.  She looked at a reference.  "Under 18 not recommended.  Well fine, but if I do want to use it, how do I prescribe it?
I've had two patients with squamous cell carcinomas of the skin recently.  Is there anything else I should do other than a total body skin exam?  And what kind of followup should they have?
35-year-old man with obsessive compulsive disorder.  The patient asked me, "What is the incidence of celiac disease?"
51-year-old woman with myasthenia gravis.  Another question with her is sweats.  Do you have to aim for something with her estrogen levels to control sweats and hot flashes?
Does Premphase work for birth control?
A patient called during the observation time to say she was worried about being on Baycol because she just heard on the radio that they were recalling it.  The physician asked his nurse to tell the patient, "Just stop it and we will research that a little bit."
55-year-old woman with diverticulosis.  Five years ago she had an abscess and part of her colon removed.  Fine.  Then recently she is having exacerbations every 3 or 4 or 5 months.  I sent her to the surgeon.  She's concerned and doesn't know what she should do.
55-year-old woman with blepharitis.  Hydrocortisone cream was no help.
This is more of a legal question.  26-year-old woman with drug-seeking characteristics.  Had to call our headquarters to see what protocol we have to follow to discharge her from our practice.
Steroids in biliary atresia.  This is an old question that I just wanted to revisit.  Is there anything new on this?
62-year-old man with cheilitis.  "What causes cheilitis and how do you treat it?  I'm always puzzled by that.
65-year-old woman with a blood pressure of 180/110.  Her ambulatory readings are better than that. "White coat hypertension is not supposed to be a concern, but now you hear little things that maybe it is a concern.  Well, is it or isn't it?"
Email question from study physician:  "A frail, thin, 82-year-old male presented to me with new onset of unilateral gynecomastia.  Now the question is: Do I have to pursue any further workup? Mammogram? Is this similar to the adolescent male unilateral gynecomastia that we sometimes see, or is this more worrisome?
The other thing I thought of . . .  We need somewhere . . . But maybe it's not available yet.  It's so new.  Alternative medicines that are not harmful.
What is the ideal body weight for a 5-foot, 8-inch, 26-year-old woman?
How strong is the evidence for giving prednisone for Bells Palsy?
I once had this Department of Transportation physical and the guy was on dialysis.  I refused to sign it.  I called up the Department of Transportation first though and said what are the rules about driving if you're on dialysis.  They just said, "It's up to you doc."  Not very helpful.
Last week I saw an 8-year-old girl with a bump in her groin.  "What is this?"  "I wasn't sure what that was or if I should refer."
I had a lady with rheumatoid arthritis.  "What is the minimum dose of steroids for maintenance, that I don't have to worry about osteoporosis or gastrointestinal side effects, that I should shoot for?"
I had a woman.  Celiac disease.  Is there a specific test to check this disease?
"Is there any interaction between atenolol and methyldopa?"
Over 90-year-old inpatient with severe congestive heart failure on Coumadin.  She was having shortness of breath, and it was paroxysmal, so I got a ventilation-perfusion scan and this showed high probability for pulmonary embolus.  The question is, should she get a filter.  I didn't do her leg veins, but even if they were normal, should she get a filter?
Should we anticoagulate this elderly woman with a thoracic aortic aneurysm, atrial fibrillation, and recent retinal artery occlusion?
35-year-old female with recurrent sinusitis despite steroid nasal spray, normal saline rinses, decongestants (Claritin D), and 3 surgeries for nasal polyps.  Is there an antibiotic solution for rinsing the nose and sinuses?
47-year-old woman has had raised nevi on her face since childhood.  The question was what is the best way to remove these without leaving a scar.
One-year-old with chronic renal insufficiency and failure to thrive.  Workup and management.  What specifically should I instruct the parents on in terms of meals and snacks and how much to offer at each meal?
This is a 72-year-old man on Lotrel 5/20, Atenolol 100 milligrams, Cardura 4 milligrams and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 milligrams.  I read recently that alpha blockers increase the risk of myocardial infarction and if that is the sole medication, you should switch, but they never say what to do if the patient is on a combination of medicines or if the alpha blocker is being used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (and working well for that).  So should you switch then, even if it's working?
12-year-old boy with posterior malleolar fracture.  "What do I do with this?"
32-year-old nulliparous female.  Amenorrhea (no galactorrhea) for 4 months.  Pregnancy test negative, did workup, prolactin elevated to 90.  (1)  What is the recommended further evaluation of this elevated prolactin?  (2)  Leave it alone?  Image? (3)  If she doesn't want to get pregnant, can I use the elevated prolactin as a reliable form of birth control and tell the patient she doesn't need to use condoms or be on the pill?  (4)  How often to check prolactin level?
I saw a 6-month-old last week, and the mother asked if she should be on fluoride supplements.  They live in the country and use well water.  I didn't know.
"How would you classify uterine prolapse and when would you refer?"
Atypical presentations of sciatica.  Patient has sciatic pain.  Better when sitting (physician smiled indicating this was atypical).  Better with lying down, which makes sense.  I don't know what that is.
5-year-old with psychiatric issues (attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder and lots of family history).  The child has a sensitivity to light.  He doesn't want to open his eyes.  I looked in a reference and found nothing.
"Colon cancer screening.  I had sent one of my 43-year-old patients to gastroenterology for screening colonoscopy because her father had colon cancer in his 60's.  They sent her back, saying we should start screening at age 50."
Question e-mailed to me by study physician between study visits:  One of my patients stopped his Lipitor because it caused dry eyes. I still don't know if that was the cause.
32-year-old man chews tobacco.  Does the patch help to get him off?  Does the gum help?
5-year-old boy with autism.  The one thing I couldn't find much on . . . Dad was asking about chelation therapy such as with EDTA (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid).  "Has anyone used empiric EDTA?"
Three-week-old girl.  I just wanted to be sure I wrote the right dose of Zantac.
4-day-old white male, newborn in the hospital, I delivered.  He was just about to go home and the nurses said, by the way, he's been tachypneic for the last hour or two, with respiratory rates of 60 to 70.  The question was, can tachypnea result from laryngomalacia.
A woman complaining of halitosis.  Had it a long time.  Her (the patient's) question was, "Anything we can do about it?"
Three-month-old.  "What is the spontaneous resolution rate of oral thrush?"
"Thyroid and weight fluctuations -- fact or fiction?"  I think if you have Graves disease you can lose weight but I don't believe you gain weight with hypothyroidism.  "What's the correlation?"
4-year-old girl with a rash.  What is this rash?
70-year-old man with diabetes and transient ischemic attack-like symptoms.  I don't know what's going on with him.
Mother wanted to borrow the microwave to microwave the bottle of formula.  The nurse and physician advised her to heat the bottle with warm water from the sink instead.  Later the physician said, "You get hot spots don't you?"
My patient was convinced she had hypothyroidism.  But her labs were normal.  The thyroid stimulating hormone was normal but at the upper end of normal.  I called Dr. X (endocrinologist) and said, "Now what do I do?"
Mastodynia.  I (investigator) prompted her for what the question was.  I suggested, "What is the workup and treatment for mastodynia?"  She (study physician) said, "Well, there really is no workup after you've eliminated caffeine.  Once you've eliminated caffeine, what else is there?"
19-year-old thin Type 1 diabetic inpatient with severe episodes of right upper quadrant pain.  Normal ultrasound and upper endoscopy but her HIDA (hydroxyiminodiacetic acid) scan showed "barely visible gallbladder" and poor "ejection fraction."  The question is what to do with this HIDA (hydroxyiminodiacetic acid) scan result.  Could being NPO (nothing by mouth) affect the HIDA (hydroxyiminodiacetic acid) scan results?
3-week-old with intussusception.  Now seems to have a formula intolerance.  Is there any association between formula intolerance and intussusception?
3-year-old boy.  Bullous myringitis.  I'm curious to know if there is any need to give different treatment from the usual otitis media.
74-year-old man in for physical exam.  He had some weight loss and a mild anemia (hemoglobin 11).  Ferritin was 2000.  I looked up the causes of a high ferritin.
Two nights ago I had a newborn with a congenital nevus, 4 millimeter diameter on the forehead.  "What to do?"
80-year-old man with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and pneumonia grew Moraxella catarrhalis in the sputum.  I had to look up, what is Branhamella catarrhalis and how is it different from Moraxella.  What is what and make sure I was treating with the right stuff.
49-year-old woman with hypertension, hypokalemia, not hirsutism.  I (study physician) called the endocrinologist and basically said, "What do I do?"  I (investigator) suggested at the same time she said this, "What was the question, was it 'What's the next step with the workup?' "  She said, "Yes, that would be the way to phrase that."
25-year-old woman in for a physical exam.  Her mother and grandmother both have breast cancer.  She asked me when her first screen should be.   The question is when should you start doing mammograms in this situation.
With polio vaccine, do they need a total of 4 as long as one is after 4 years of age?  Or let's see, how did it go?  She got 4 inactivated polio vaccines but the question was, is it that you need a total of 4 or does 1 have to be after 4 years old?
I have a lady with Graves disease (33 years old).  She was trying to get pregnant when she was diagnosed with Graves.  So the question is, what is the best treatment for Graves in someone who is trying to get pregnant, and, if we use radioactive iodine, how long does she need to wait?
Four-year-old boy with a fractured clavicle.  How to treat a fractured clavicle?
If you are on 3 medications for hypertension and you're not controlled, do you add a fourth medication or do you take away some of the others and change medications?
A former 28-week-premature baby is now 15 months old and got Synagis last year.  The question is whether he should get it again this year.
I just need to pull up the Centers for Disease Control . . . the Centers for Disease Control came out with immunization guidelines . . . having a runny nose is not a contraindication to immunization, having a fever less than a certain degree is not.  This baby has a runny nose.  I was trying to explain it to the mother but I just need to look that up again.
38-year-old man.  Heel pain. I (investigator) asked what the question was -- was it "What is the best treatment for heel pain?"  He said, "What is the best treatment that the literature has shown to be most effective and most cost effective."
40-year-old guy with an ileal conduit.  What is an ileal conduit?
"What does anagen mean?  I haven't heard that word."
In this patient who is not responding to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for superficial thrombophlebitis, what is round two?
I (investigator) saw the study physician open a reference.  I said, "What's the . . . ?"  She said, "I'm just looking for doses for miglitol."
I looked up penile rashes in one of my references.  I saw a 40-year-old man with a purplish rash on the shaft of his penis.
Six-year-old girl.  For anxiety disorder in kids, is Luvox indicated?  "What do you use?"
I have seen many people around here giving Advair and Singulair for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease but no asthma.  Maybe they know something I don't about this, but I don't think so.
13-year-old male.  Popping and cracking in TM joints for 6 months.  No pain, no limitation of movement.  Does anything need to be done?
The study physician wrote this:  "8-year-old male.  How do you get a hemotympanum without trauma?  Do you treat it?  How do you treat it?  Prognosis?
Newborn.  What are the latest immunization guidelines on hepatitis B virus?  Specifically, do we have to give it in the newborn period before leaving the hospital?
79-year-old man.  In May 1999 his prostate-specific antigen was 3.8.  Now, two and a half years later, it's about 7.  So the question is what to do with this patient.
Do you treat a 50-year-old gentleman, recently returned from Africa with Blastocystis Hominis?
50-year-old man with psoriasis.  "What size does Dovonex ointment come in and what is the dose?"
I have a 65-year-old woman with Type 2 diabetes who was new to me 7 months ago.  The Food and Drug Administration recently said not to use glitazones with insulin because of the risk of congestive heart failure.  But now her glycosylated hemoglobin is better and her insulin requirement is down to 40 in the morning and 32 at night.  So what do you do with that information?
The physician said, "That's my question.  If the glycosylated hemoglobin is good and the 3-day monitor shows wide swings, would it be even better if the monitor was a flat line rather than up and down?  If the lows are averaged with the highs, is that just as good as having less wide swings?"
3-year-old girl losing her hair and becoming mean, biting behavior.  "Is there a specific reason for this?  I'm not sure exactly what's causing this."
The study physician wrote this:  "64-year-old female.  How does grapefruit interact with Lipitor?
Nine-month-old girl with excoriated diaper area due to diarrhea.  This is a recurring question.  "What else can you try?"
Here's a question that I looked up.  Seven-year-old adopted patient from Russia, all records are in Russian, and they have not been translated, but parents thought he had had the BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin) vaccine.  We did a tuberculin skin test, and it was positive at 15 to 17 millimeters.  "Do we treat it?"
66-year-old man who says, "I have a sulfur smell out of the blue sometimes."  "What's it mean?"
Six-and-three-quarters-year-old in first grade.  What do you do for selective mutism?
5-year-old boy with intoeing.  He examined the child and as he left the room he told the father he needed to check something.  He told me (investigator) "I've just got to look at the normal angles.  I forgot what they are."
53-year-old woman.  What would cause leg cramps that involve the entire leg and last one and a half hours?
Interesting patient (29-year-old woman), saw her as a gestational onset diabetic but now, post partum, she has Type I diabetes.  Her c-peptide was about 0.5 nanograms/milliliter (normal 1-5) and her serum insulin was about 2 (normal 6 to 27).  "Is this definite Type I diabetes?"
I (investigator) asked if he had to look up anything in a book in the last few days.  He said, "I had a question about Hepatitis B.  Recommendations for household contacts of carriers."
How do you treat the newborn when the mother is Group B streptococcus positive?
21-year-old.  What to do about bacterial vaginitis in the first trimester of pregnancy?
What is the best treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease (frequent spitting) in a 3 1/2-month-old?
5-year-old boy.  Luckily this kid can take pills but "which stimulants come in liquid form?
Newborn.  Thanatophoric dwarfism diagnosed by prenatal ultrasound and confirmed with amniocentesis.  Almost always lethal (pulmonary hypoplasia).  Question:  How aggressively should we treat at birth?
Treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis.  A nurse practitioner was looking at a reference and mentioned using once daily dosing for amoxicillin.  I (investigator) said, "So the question is 'Is this a legitimate treatment?'"  He said, "Yes."
This woman was seen yesterday in the emergency room.  She had numbness in her left hand and foot.  Her CT scan showed a lacunar infarct, age indeterminate, at the genu of the internal capsule.  I guess my question is, if it is a new stroke clinically, do I admit her at this point?
"Overweight woman having more hot flashes.  All the specifics about that.  For example, does it take longer to get over them if you are overweight?  How long does it take to get over them when you stop hormones?"
Who with polycystic ovary syndrome should get metformin?
10-year-old boy with attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder.  "Is there less appetite suppression with Adderall than Ritalin and Concerta?"
Have you seen this?  (Study physician handed me (investigator) a letter from an orthopedist which told about a new treatment for low back pain called the DRS (Decompression Reduction Stabilization)/Spina System.  "I'd be interested to know what the orthopedic department at Iowa . . . ask them what they think of that."
47-year-old woman with rash, no better.  The question is what is this rash from and how to treat it?
54-year-old man taking flax seed oil.  "I have to think of what that's for.  I'd have to look that up."
58-year-old female.  Do you need to give a trial of nonsteroidals before you inject a shoulder or is an injection a first line treatment?
3-year-old boy.  Alternating Tylenol and ibuprofen.  Is it efficacious?  Have there been any randomized controlled trials?
"Osteopenia in males.  Do you treat it the same way as in women?"
One-year-old with previous Salmonella enteritis, now asymptomatic but followup stool culture positive for Salmonella.  Should she be treated?
28-year-old woman had a deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolus with her first pregnancy.  I diagnosed her with prothrombin mutation.  Now she is on her second pregnancy.  "What kind of anticoagulation does she need?  Really the question was unfractionated heparin versus low molecular weight heparin."
"I should look this up but . . . .  I have a lady with terrible trigeminal, first division pain.  I'm going to start Famvir, thinking that it's zoster.  My question is, should we also give steroids?
What is causing this chronic cough?  Could this be cystic fibrosis?  Should we get a sweat chloride?  Should he go to a pulmonologist?
Two year and 10-month-old boy weighs about 65 pounds and is about 42 inches tall.  We did a bone age and the bone age was between 4 and 4 1/2 years old.  The question is, is that significantly different from what it should be for this age and what should we do about it?
Two-year-old with iron deficiency anemia.  Do they still make Feosol spansules?
54-year-old woman had a cervical polyp removed, continues to bleed, referred to gynecologist.  "Are cervical polyps ever malignant?"
14-year-old boy with mallet finger, the fracture fragment was pulled down away from the phalanx.  I (investigator) said, "And the question was . . . ?"  She said, "What do I do?"
We had a baby who's mother broke out with Zoster a couple of days after she was born and the baby had a couple of skin lesions too.  The question was what to do with the baby.
We see a lot of people with depression.  Many of them see psychiatrists.  They put the patient on lithium.  They may fail to check a lithium level.  As a primary care provider, how often do you check the lithium level?
28-year-old obstetric patient with a rash.  What is the rash?
I forgot the name of the antihistamine eye drop.  31-year-old woman with allergic conjunctivitis.
5-year-old girl with tinea capitis.  What is the dose of griseofulvin?
Next is a huge question for me.  Painful cracks in thick skin on the feet.  How to treat this?
Referring to low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol in a 77 year-old woman, "How far do you push them down?"  You know with the National Cholesterol Education Program Guidelines, all these patients had heart disease or diabetes, but what do you do with these patients who haven't had their heart attack yet and they don't have diabetes?  She's on Zocor 20 milligrams a day and her low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol is approximately 115.
My question was, "Can we treat a four-week old with griseofulvin?"
68-year-old white female presented with abdominal pain for over two months.  Eventually went to exploratory laparotomy where disseminated ovarian cancer was found.  Question:  What role, if any, would a CA-125 (cancer antigen 125) play in detecting this earlier?
There is an old lady (80 years old) coming this afternoon that you won't be here for, but I always have a question with her.  She complains of "excessive phlegm."  I never know what to do with that complaint or how to work it up.
31-year-old woman in for annual exam.  Is Saint John's Wort helpful for premenstrual syndrome?
The mother of this 2-year-old boy says he is drinking 10 ounces of milk per day.  "How much milk one should drink per day?"
Five-year-old twins.  Dichorionic, diamnionic.  Mom asked, "Can't that egg split in the fallopian tube and then be dichorionic, diamnionic?"
"Dizziness, I don't know."  Smoker, intermittent dizziness.  I sent him to a neurologist with the question, "What's the cause of this dizziness?"
Three-year-old girl possibly sexually abused by adolescent boy.   Physician to Department of Human Services worker:  "With him being an adolescent, is this a Department of Human Services case or do I go to the police to report it?"
Should ibuprofen, used on an as-needed basis, be stopped if the patient is on aspirin?
Does ear taping work?  (His partner asked him this and he didn't know.)
What is the prognosis for endometrioid cancer?
I checked to see if there were any interactions between iron and thyroxine.
21-year-old female.  I never know what to do with patients who complain of vaginal discharge and on exam there seems to be more discharge than usual, but all you see under the microscope are white cells, no clue cells or other apparent cause.
7-year-old boy with enuresis.  Desmopressin.  How long do you give it before switching to something else and what do you do?  The books say to taper off, but if the enuresis starts again and you go back to desmopressin, how long do you keep trying?
Two-month-old female, sleeping in bed with mother.  Mother rolled over onto her side onto baby's right arm, today she is not moving the right arm and is fussy if it is touched.  I just requested an x-ray.  "If it's normal, what do I do?"
I have a patient.  Her diastolic blood pressure is 20.  Her systolic blood pressure is 160.  She's already on three antihypertensives.  I heard about the J-curve.  What do I do?
53-year-old man.  He has had a febrile illness, and, before the fever, he had arthralgias and neck stiffness.  I can't remember the transient symptoms of the encephalitis virus going around New York City now (Eastern Equine Encephalitis).
This is another question.  65-year-old man, smoker, doesn't take care of himself.  Pressured by his wife.  This private screening service showed that he most probably has blockage of at least one of his vessels.  (The screening service is a computerized tomography scan of the heart, marketed directly to patients.)  "What should I do?"  I didn't ask for this.  Do you know how much work this is?
"We had a question." The study physician said this as he came out of the exam room with a resident.  "The safety of lansoprazole in pregnancy."
8-year-old boy with perianal fistula, not healing, suspect inflammatory bowel disease.  What is the incidence of inflammatory bowel disease in siblings?
6-week-old not tracking well.  "I'm wondering about developmental delay.  What is the differential diagnosis of developmental delay?"
This is probably unanswerable but I have a 72-year-old woman who 3 or 4 weeks ago had a subendocardial myocardial infarction.  She had already had some trouble with dizziness, but now she dropped her systolic blood pressure on standing (50 points) and was rehospitalized with chest pain.  "I just wonder about this orthostatic hypotension and coronary spasm.  Then what do you do?  What other testing?  And how to treat orthostatic hypotension?"
10-year-old girl has prominent painful distal ulnas.  We thought these were cysts (my partner and I).
Young lady on oral contraceptives, obese, had a pulmonary embolus.  "How long to continue Coumadin?"
What is the treatment for tri-iodothyronine thyrotoxicosis?
What is the dose of cholestyramine for diarrhea?
57-year-old white female.  Factor V Leiden?  Does it increase the risk of coronary disease?  Should you screen for it?
Similac Advance and Enfamil Lipil.  Docosahexaenoic acid and arachidonic acid.  I (investigator) prompted him for the question.  He said, "Is it really needed or is there an added benefit?
"OK, do you have to wean Strattera?  I don't know."
The study physician wrote this:  "72-year-old female.  What is the optimal initial medication strategy for Parkinson's?  How high do you go on Sinemet before you add additional drugs?"
A 50-year-old woman asked me if she could be a surrogate mother.
33-year-old woman on birth control pills.  She bleeds appropriately at the time of her periods but also bleeds at other times.  If she was on a lower estrogen pill, like if I switched her from TriLevlen to Allesse, would that help?  The whole issue of how to deal with abnormal vaginal bleeding pre- and post-menopausal is a question.
54-year-old woman with chest pain.  What is the sensitivity and specificity of adenosine thallium and dobutamine echocardiogram in women compared to men?
"I went over the list to see if I had any questions from this morning.  A child came in for tonsillar problems.  8-year-old female.  Wondered about indications for tonsillectomy.
22 year-old man.  Does Ritalin raise blood pressure?
6-month-old with prolonged diarrhea.  We got stool cultures today.  The question is, What do I start her on while I wait for the culture?
35-year-old man.  Gynecomastia in males.  My question is, is there any way of clinically knowing that it is benign, so that I would not have to refer?
This is a little girl with chronic developmental problems and a seizure disorder.  She's had an increase in her seizures.  When we increase her medicine, she gets tired.  When we decrease it, she gets more seizures.  The question is what to do next.
Four-week old.  What is the dose of Diflucan for tinea capitis in an infant?
37-year-old female inpatient with acute tubular necrosis and sepsis.  She was vomiting.  "Can serosal implants (eg from metastases or endometriosis) cause vomiting without radiographic signs of bowel obstruction?"
Tuberculin skin test on someone who's had a BCG (bacille Calmette-Guerin) vaccine, adopted from India, thinks she had the BCG (bacille Calmette-Guerin).  This reference is better than it used to be.  "But it would be nice if there were clear guidelines on this:  If the vaccine was given more than five years previously and the skin test is positive, do this."  How long does the skin test stay positive after the vaccine?
82-year-old female.  "That would be an interesting question -- if we know what improves survival in patients with diastolic dysfunction."
I had a pregnant patient on Synthroid and I called Dr. X (endocrinologist).  He said to find out why she has hypothyroidism because it can make a difference to the baby.  I (investigator) asked, "What was the question when you called Dr. X?"  She said, "How do I manage thyroid replacement in pregnancy?  What laboratory tests do I need to follow?
Referring to low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol in a 77 year-old woman, "How long do you push them down?"  Meaning, at what age should you no longer treat elevated low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol?
31-month old twin with developmental delay.  I wonder if there have been twin studies on autism.
What is the dose of bromocriptine (Parlodel)?
Is there any way to get people to come to their appointments and monitor their blood pressure?
I (investigator) saw her looking at her handheld computer and asked what the question was.  She said, "Dosing for drops for otitis externa."
I asked him what he was looking up.  He said, "whether to give drops or elixir acetaminophen to a 1-year-old for their immunizations and what dose."
We have an allergist that swears that generic prednisone is not as good as Deltasone.  I'd like to know if there is any science behind that.
Over 90-year-old with change in bowel habits (occasional diarrhea) and guaiac positive stool on exam today.  The physician said, "What would you do?" asking me (investigator).
13-year-old boy with lymphoma had a 10-pound weight loss.  Increased amylase was the only abnormal lab.  He was still growing appropriately for his age (still within the appropriate percentile lines).  The question was, "How aggressive should I get?"
"With chickenpox, when do you use Acyclovir?"
22-year-old woman complains that her heart feels like it's jumping out of her chest, light headed, dizzy, suffocating feeling, mother said she had a hole in her heart.  Sounds like anxiety.  I got thyroid functions, but my question is, "Do you go as far as to get a Holter monitor on these patients?
Is there anything to prevent sebaceous cysts from occurring?  Is it a duct that gets blocked?
What I'm looking up is if there is any association between iron overload and HIV (human-immunodeficiency virus).
43-year-old woman with bladder symptoms.  The urinalysis showed "glitter cells."  "I have no idea what that is."
47-year-old man.  What is the significance of a low free testosterone and normal gonadotrophins in a male with erectile dysfunction?  Shouldn't you have high gonadotrophins if the free testosterone is low?  Do these people all have pituitary insufficiency?
Five-year-old unable to swallow Adderall XR.  "Can Adderall XR be crushed and mixed and still be extended release?"
"Is Bextra better or worse than other COX-2 (cyclooxygenase-2) inhibitors?
He's got night sweats along with a lot of other symptoms.  But the only concerning one is night sweats.  I (investigator) prompted:  "So what would you look up?  What is the question?"  He said, "Any other unusual causes that I might need to check for and any symptomatic treatment?"
We had a case of rickets.  12-month-old boy.  I (investigator) asked what the question was.  He said, "Why is he failing to thrive?"  Part of the question was how do you work up possible rickets.
18-month-old male with cervical and supraclavicular adenopathy that persisted for 6 months.  I get this a lot.  Concerns from the mother.  I (investigator) prompted, "What is the question?"  He said, "I'm looking for more guidelines.  Information in the books is meager."
There was a patient (50-year-old man) with left bundle branch block (questionably new or old) who had chest pain.  I set him up for a stress echocardiogram, but the cardiologist said he could not do the stress echocardiogram due to the left bundle branch block.  He wanted to do a pharmacologic stress echocardiogram (rather than exercise).  "Why is that?"
What is the dose of Klonopin?
11-year-old boy.  Downs.  My number 1 question is, do patients with Down Syndrome . . . Are they more sensitive to adverse effects of anticonvulsants?
37-year-old female inpatient with acute tubular necrosis and sepsis.  She is anemic.  The question is, "Does anything impair erythropoietin secretion other than chronic renal failure?"
11-year-old with a wart on the hand.  The question is "Is this a dermatology referral or we should do something else here or what?"
38-year-old man with sweaty feet and keratin build-up on heels.  The physician started looking in a reference.  I (investigator) asked her to phrase the question.  She said she was just looking up keratolysis.  I said, 'Could you say the question is "What are the characteristics of keratolysis?'"  She said yes, you could say that.
If you have a patient who had a coronary bypass or any heart surgery, say 10 years ago, when do you do a stress test to see how they are doing?  This patient is doing fine but when should you follow up?
I caught her looking on her bulletin board and said this may be a question.  She said, "No, I can never remember the potency of topical steroids."  I said, "So the question is . . . ?"  She said, "The question is what can I use that's fairly high potency?"
17-year-old girl with Turner's syndrome and chest pain, thought to be secondary to anxiety, seen in emergency room.  Parents say she sometimes has hallucinations.  Should she be on antipsychotic medications?
Which form of calcium is best to prevent osteoporosis?  For $60 a month you can get sea shell calcium.  Which is absorbed better?
70-year-old woman with herpetic disease of the eye.  (1) How much and after how long will steroid use will cause immunosuppression, (2) Can steroid inhalers cause immunosuppression?
Do you need to monitor liver function tests with griseofulvin or terbinafine?
"This lady wanted to know if Centrum with Ginseng interacts with any of her medications."
27-year-old man with Type 1 diabetes.  The magnetic resonance imaging showed a thalamic stroke.  The erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 90.  "That kept troubling me."  I don't know what else to do.  Is it from the diabetes?  Is it from the anemia?  Is that the reason for his erythrocyte sedimentation rate or should I work it up further and how to work it up?
17-year-old with institutional colon, rolling on the floor, screaming.  They gave a soap suds enema but that was no help.  The home was calling the physician for advice.  The physician said, "What's the best treatment for institutional colon?"
49-year-old woman.  Single area of herpes zoster, less than 48 hours old.  Since it's so small, should I treat her?
49-year-old with obsessive-compulsive disorder.  She's on Luvox 100 milligrams.  I looked on an online resource to see if it can cause someone to be "buzzed or juiced up" because she seemed overly animated today.
"Seven-year-old girl with grade II reflux and mild constipation.  In attempting to treat the constipation, is olive oil or vegetable oil just as effective as, or an alternative to mineral oil?"
Can we use Remicade in ulcerative colitis?  Has anybody shown it to be effective?
63-year-old female on tamoxifen to prevent breast cancer.  So the question is whether this is justified to have her on the tamoxifen and if so, how long should she be on it.  The other question is whether tamoxifen can cause low platelets.
Phone call from radiologist.  "Your 77-year-old patient has a category 5 mammogram.  These old calcifications look like sclerosing adenosis."  The physician said, "Isn't that premalignant?"
What do you do for mild vesicoureteral reflux?  What kind of followup do you do and how often?  Do you repeat it (the voiding cystourethrogram)?
A physician's assistant asked the obstetrician (next to study physician) what would be a good antianxiety drug in this patient who is 4-months postpartum and breast feeding.
I had an elderly patient with a cerebrovascular accident.  New imaging studies.  Which is better: computerized tomography or magnetic resonance imaging?  When to use contrast and when not to use contrast?
89-year-old man with end-stage renal disease, dyspnea, and fluid overload on chest film.  On Lasix 200 milligrams twice a day.  "I have a question. Why isn't he responding to oral . . . you know?
What percentage of doctors fail to check renal function one week after starting an ACE (angiotensin converting enzyme) inhibitor and are now in jail for malpractice?
13-year-old premenarchal female with scoliosis and a 22 degree curvature at T5 to T10.  "Should the patient be followed in a few months or referred to orthopedics?"
Are there any real differences among the nonsedating antihistamines?
This is a 7-month-old girl who was bitten on the face and hand by an 18-month-old at the same day care center.  "What do you do about the day care situation where this happened?  How do you prevent it?"
Twelve-year-old boy with proximal humerus fracture.  I (investigator) asked if the question was, "What's the treatment for this?"  He said yes.  "I was pretty sure he didn't need surgery.  I just wondered if he needed anything more than a sling."
Woman in her 20's with a mole on her arm, scared of needles.  I'm looking up EMLA (Eutectic Mixture of Local Anesthetics).  I (investigator) asked her, "What is the question?  The dose or . . . "  She answered, "The dose and how long to apply it before giving the xylocaine injection."
Two-month-old male presented to the emergency room two nights ago.  One question was the hemoglobin.  Don't know if I could explain this through the physiologic nadir or if it was related to autoimmune anemia with transfer of antibodies through the placenta of if it was the anemia of his illness.
50-year-old man with hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia.  The cholesterol is better but his triglycerides are still high.  The question is should we put him on a triglyceride-specific drug along with Lipitor and risk muscle weakness?  It's a style point.
Woman in her 90's with pulmonary fibrosis and Clostridium difficile colitis, not taking anything by mouth.  I had to remind myself that Flagyl given intravenously would still cover Clostridium difficile.
5-year-old.  At what frequency should you see kids back when they have attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder?
Can you give the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine and chickenpox vaccine at the same time?  She asked her nurse who said yes.
52-year-old man.  People with knee pain and magnetic resonance imaging.  Has somebody . . . ?  "At 6 weeks if he's still not better and the x-ray is normal, is this cost effective at this time to do a magnetic resonance imaging?"
What do you do with a patient who refuses investigation or treatment but has pain?
79-year-old woman with irritation in the vaginal area, probably atrophic vaginitis.  I tried an estrogen pessary and cream but they were no help.  The question was "what other approaches can we take?"
40-year-old male.  The patient asked me, "Do you think I will ever be able to get off hyperlipidemia medications?  How will we know when to stop them?"
80-year-old man.  I had to look up bacillus (gram positive rod) bacteremia.  There I was just trying to find the etiology or anything that would be associated with bacillus bacteremia.
2-year-old boy who has some autistic features.  The main question was . . . mother says she tried a gluten-free diet.  She didn't think it worked, he became more irritable because he likes pasta.  She came right out and said, "What do you think about the diet, Doc?"
This 2-month-old was delivered at 34 and 2/7 weeks gestation.  For preterm infants, is it now routine to give them something to prevent respiratory syncytial virus during the winter months?
86-year-old woman on Coumadin.  What's the dose of Lovenox?
Last week I had a 3-week-old boy with pyloric stenosis.  I looked up pyloric stenosis to see if ultrasound is still the test of choice.
What are the options for treating a streptococcal pharyngitis if you also want to cover a urinary tract infection?
This guy is getting dental work and has a canker sore (aphthous ulcer).  There's a cream for canker sores, Kenalog in Orabase.  "How often do you use it?"
"Are there any cardiac contraindications to Strattera?"
Leg cramps and use of quinine.  Two questions.  Is there literature to support the use of quinine?  Also why do leg cramps occur and how do you address them?
A family came in with a 5 or 6-year-old boy who had autistic features.  They wanted to know if it was related to immunizations, especially the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine.
Two-week old.  Do you stop breast feeding for mastitis?
Eleven-year-old boy with Down syndrome.  Sleep apnea can increase the thyroid stimulating hormone but by how much and is that because night time growth hormone suppresses and overlaps somehow with the rest of the pituitary?  "I wanted to know if there was a special antibody I should get."
Last week I saw a 4-year-old girl with shingles on the left leg.  I didn't know what it was and I had the dermatologist take a look.  He did a Tzanck preparation and it was positive.  So the question was, "What is this rash?" and then the best way to treat it.
A woman with mild hirsutism.  "When do I need to do a dexamethasone suppression test?"  "At what levels of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate do you consider an adrenal tumor?"
Two-year-old girl with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia controlled on propranolol, broke through over the weekend.  What should we do with her medications?
I saw an 8-year-old boy who had intermittent asymptomatic swelling of one knee.  No trauma.  It would just swell up out of the blue and then go down.  The question is what would cause this.
Is it really true that treating streptococcal sore throat with antibiotics does not make the symptoms go away any quicker?
85-year-old woman admitted 2 weeks ago with syncope.  Nonsmoker.  Has a mass in her lung.  The question was, would you just go to surgery, or try bronchoscopy and that kind of thing first.  And the differential diagnosis too.  No other primary cancers in her.  The thought was, since she had the syncope and some palpitations, could this be a carcinoid?
What is the dose of Augmentin XR?
Is there any difference in how often you should wash the hair in black kids?
41-year-old woman with recurrent thrush.  Can it just keep growing on her retainer or do we need to do some kind of workup?
50-year-old woman here for a complete physical exam.   What's the best way to taper someone off an estrogen/progesterone combination?
30-year-old woman had trichomonas on Pap smear.  I had to look up the dose of Flagyl for Trichomonas.
What is the best way to remove seborrheic keratoses?
Do you need to do anything else when somebody develops secondary enuresis, besides a urinalysis?
"I have a question.  You know how some kids pop a lot when you pick them up?  I (physician) said, 'Well, I don't know but it's probably normal.'"  I (investigator) asked later to confirm that she (study physician) meant popping joints and she did.
I (investigator) saw him looking in a book on his shelf and asked what the question was.  He said, "Dose of penicillin for streptococcus . . . I always get confused on Bicillin . . ."  I (investigator) said, "The issue is . . . ?"  He said, "What type?
30-year-old woman with multiple sclerosis now has fever, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and rash (confluent macular).  "Are steroids appropriate in a multiple sclerosis exacerbation that may be due to a viral illness?"
This lady is kind of a puzzle.  44-year-old woman.  She has fibrosing mediastinitis.  She had a jugular-atrial bypass.  But I really don't know how to follow that (the graft surgery).
I had a question about enuresis in adults.  I told them to get him up two to three times at night, and not give a lot of fluids before he goes to bed, and they tried that, but it didn't work.
Why do we treat goopy eyes with antibiotics when we don't treat goopy noses with antibiotics?
48-year-old woman with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and thick sputum.  I got her a suction device but I just wanted to know if any of the anticholinergic drugs, such as benztropine, would help with her oral secretions.
A large-for-gestational-age baby was delivered by a family physician who consulted my partner because of a low calcium.  My partner asked me why the calcium wasn't coming up even after we gave intravenous replacement.  I said I didn't know.
This is a woman who I think has benign positional vertigo.  "How would you prove that this is not a central problem?"
What is the generic name of Protonix?
7-year-old boy with clinical gastro-esophageal reflux disease.  What is appropriate to do first:  ranitidine or omeprazole?"
Approximately 60-year-old man with two-month history of toe lesions.  "What is causing these lesions on the ends of his toes?"
84-year-old woman with a leukemoid reaction.  Persistent white blood counts in the 20,000's.  No sign of infection.  So the question was, what is the evaluation and causes of leukemoid reactions and what is the definition.
Recommendation for treatment duration of uncomplicated cystitis?
70-year-old man with a twelfth thoracic vertebra compression fracture.  Is he a candidate for vertebroplasty (where they inject something in the vertebral body to increase the height)?
What is the dose of compazine spansules?
62-year-old man.  He was healthy until 6 months ago when he moved to a new house and now he has asthma.  He called today saying he is worse, just after getting off a course of Prednisone.  "I don't know what should I do with him."
I saw a 57-year-old man this morning with non-specific abdominal pain.  I couldn't feel his right testicle.  So, my question was if an adult that has an undescended testicle that hasn't been recognized, does it have a malignant potential?
Old folks with otitis externa or other ear problems.  Cipro or Floxin drops are preferred because of less damage to the auditory nerve than Cortisporin or Neomycin.  Is that a marketing gimmick or is that real?
What is the dose of Zyrtec for a 3-year-old?
OK, here's one.  70-year-old woman.  Had an episode of diverticulitis recently.  Had a colonoscopy 2 years ago.  Does she need it repeated?
62-year-old woman with seborrheic keratosis on her leg, in for cryotherapy.  "I don't know how to open this."  She could not get the cryo bottle open to get to the liquid nitrogen.
Two-year-old girl with intermittent screaming due to back pain (she reaches around and grabs her back) going on for the last month.  "I have no idea what's wrong with her."
8-year-old was on Paxil, Adderall, Clonidine, and Trazadone.  She stopped everything cold turkey and was started on Zyprexa.  Two days later she came into the emergency room hypertensive (135/95) and tachycardic and tremulous.  I called child psychiatry at a tertiary center and the question was, "What do I do?"
Two-year-old girl going on a trip to Brazil with her mother.  Mother said, "Does she really need the hepatitis A vaccine?"  The question for me was, how important is it really.
How much does the chickenpox vaccine cost?
79-year-old man with facial palsy secondary to a stroke.  He had mild wheezing on exam.  How do you do pulmonary function testing on someone with facial palsy who is unable to make a tight seal with his lips?
63 year-old woman got worse on Fosamax (decreased bone mass).  "Would you do another bone density scan and if so when, knowing that there is not much else to do for her?"
Should children with meningococcal disease get the vaccine for Neisseria meningitidis?  I have a 2-year-old in the hospital now with meningococcal sepsis.  He's doing well but does he need the meningococcal vaccine?
What are the indications for plain x-rays or magnetic resonance imaging in patients with low back pain?
49-year-old man with diabetes, congestive heart failure, and steatohepatitis.  "Can patients with steatohepatitis take statins?"
"If you take iron, it makes the guaiac positive, right?"
Phone call.  "Can you do a thin prep Papanicolaou smear when the patient is on her menses?"
46-year-old woman.  What is the success rate in using phenol to prevent the nail from growing back after removing an ingrown toenail?
What is Stickler Syndrome?  Does it affect a chronic ruptured tympanic membrane?
3-year-old boy born at 24-weeks gestation.  Has cerebral palsy.  Mother is taking him for hyperbaric oxygen treatment.  I (investigator) said, "This may not be a question for you but it is for me, whether hyperbaric oxygen treatment is effective for this."  He (physician) said he didn't know either but he doesn't think so.
One-year-old ate racoon feces.  Study physician's partner e-mailed infectious disease consult:  "Do you have knowledge about the racoon ascarid Baylisascaris?  Should we treat a one-year old who probably ingested racoon feces?"
A phone call from mother of a 3-year-old with what she thinks is thrush.  Has had it before.  Physician looked up the dose of nystatin oral suspension in a reference.
15-month-old well child exam but he has eczema not responding to hydrocortisone cream and moisturizing cream.  If hydrocortisone cream doesn't work, what do I go to next?  When do you go to tacrolimus cream?
9-month-old in for well-child exam.  They know you're not supposed to give cow's milk because of gastrointestinal blood loss, but what about cheese and yogurt?  Is that a problem?
Oh, I know.  (She was trying to remember the questions she's had recently). The workup for polycystic ovarian syndrome.  And when to suspect it.
23-year-old woman with Graves disease.  She developed an absolute neutrophil count of 30 on Tapazole (total white count 3000, 1% neutrophils).  Is there any cross reactivity between Tapazole and propylthiouracil?  Is it safe to start propylthiouracil?
A family physician called the study physician to ask about a 4-day-old with jaundice and a bilirubin of 20.  "I was going to go over the guidelines.  I think they say to transfuse if over 20 but I'm more conservative than that."
For premature babies who get Synagis, we had one who tested positive for respiratory syncytial virus and the question was "Should we continue the Synagis for the rest of the respiratory syncytial virus season?"
13-year-old girl here for sports physical.  The question is, "What is the differential diagnosis of an intermittent croupy cough?"
Dose of Bactrim for a 52-pound child.
Last week I had a 37-year-old diabetic female and I wanted to convert her from regular insulin to Humalog and the question was, "What is the conversion factor, so I know how much Humalog to give?"
That would be a question.  75-year-old man with Paget's disease in his leg.  "What effect does Paget's disease have on other bones?"  Does it cause problems with metabolism because he has a dorsal kyphosis and question of compression fractures in the mid-thoracic spine but no obvious Pagets there.  I wonder if the rapid turnover of bone could do this.
36-year-old woman.  "I've asked this question . . . whether it's mandatory . . . blood pressure and birth control pills . . . I've had a couple of patients on it . . . ."  I (investigator) said, "So the question is, "If you have hypertension, should you stop the birth control pill?"  He said, "Right, right."
84-year-old female.  Would you treat a pure culture of 40,000 Escherichia coli with a negative urinalysis?
9-year-old boy with history of recurrent abdominal pain.  So I guess it's more of a diagnostic question.  Is the duodenitis causing the pain or the migraine?  If it is migraine, what other drug treatment, abortive or prophylactic, could we use?
"Ideal treatment for peripheral edema from nonsteroidals other than stopping them?"
I looked up the diagnosis and therapy of hyperthyroidism in this reference.  The question was how to differentiate the different causes of hyperthyroidism.
"Does pregnancy induce or aggravate radicular pain from low back pain?"
Hypertension.  Young woman, 28-years-old.  "What all lab tests do I need to order?"
I saw a 40-year-old man with prostatitis.  I had to look to see the duration of treatment.
38-year-old female, health care worker, didn't get the flu shot.  Daughter has influenza A.  How long are you contagious when you have Influenza A?
20-year-old volleyball player with leg cramps.  Coach said to try quinine.  I've used quinine for night cramps with fair results, but I've never used it in the setting of young athletes.
42-year-old woman.  Her tympanic membrane retracts with nasal inspiration.  "What would cause that?"
This is a 10-year-old girl who was treated 9 days ago for streptococcal sore throat with azithromycin.  The swab (rapid test) was positive for streptococcus.  Now her dysphagia is better but still has a sore throat and the swab is again positive for streptococcus.  So the question is, what to do if you have persistent streptococcal pharyngitis?  And what to do if she is a carrier?  And if her tonsils need to be taken out?
What is the treatment, if any, for a middle-aged man with inflammatory myopathy (creatinine kinases up to 3000, chronically) without symptoms for many years?
Why do parents always say they come up short by a day or two on the antibiotic prescription?
49-year-old man with known diabetes had triglycerides above 7000.  He never had pancreatitis.  I hit the books to see how to treat that.
6-year-old girl with encopresis.  A question came to mind.  "How long do we usually treat functional encopresis?"
32-year-old man with shortness of breath on exertion, supposedly has Type 2 diabetes, has family history of cardiomyopathy.  The question is how to address this issue.  Is he having hypertensive cardiomyopathy?  Is he having familial cardiomyopathy?  And which antihypertensive would be best?  Should I give a beta blocker because of the possible hypertensive cardiomyopathy?  Should I give an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor because of the diabetes?  Or what?
Elderly man with rheumatoid arthritis.  What labs do you need to follow in a patient on methotrexate other than liver function tests and a complete blood count?
What is the best shoe for walkers who have a lot of calluses?
13-year-old girl with menorrhagia.  She has a relative with von Willebrands and the mother asked me if this could be the cause of her menorrhagia.  I said it could but the question was, "How exactly do I figure it out?"
50-year-old male with nasal polyps and congestion.  Allegra and Nasacort not working.  Doesn't like steroids.  Doesn't want surgery.  Are there any other options?
30-year-old man with a rash on his abdomen and legs, quite extensive, never seen this kind of rash before.  The question is, what is this rash?
What strength does amitriptyline come in?  Specifically, does it come in a 50 milligram tablet?
In medical school we always used to do tuberculin skin tests with controls.  "Why aren't we doing controls anymore?"
Systolic hypertension in the elderly.  Stop at two medications?  Stop at three medications?  Always an issue.
"Got any magical cures for nosebleeds?  Maybe a legitimate question is when to send a nosebleed to an otolaryngologist."
"What antihypertensives are OK in someone who wants to get pregnant?"
8-year-old boy with failure to thrive.  The question would be, what endocrine tests to get.  Do you get a growth hormone?  Do you do cortisol levels?  Thyroid function tests?
Two months ago I had a 40 year-old woman who was just the picture of health, but she had an amazingly high very-low-density-lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol.  I went to a reference, but they didn't even address at what level to treat or what the preferred treatment was.  And I wasn't even sure why this lady would have it.  I wonder if she had abnormal metabolism.
21-year-old pregnant woman had a one-hour glucose of about 190.  Her glucose tolerance test was about 90 (fasting), about 210 (one hour), about 160 (two hours), about 130 (three hours).  Normals are less than 105, 190, 165, 145.  "Do I need to be checking a random blood sugar every time?"
Metacarpal fracture in a 25-year-old man.  I didn't know exactly what cast to put on and whether I needed a special cast to include the fingers.
Six-month old boy with respiratory syncytial virus and herpes simplex virus-type 1 around his mouth.  "When is it too late to treat an outbreak of chickenpox or oral herpes with acyclovir?
33-year-old female.  The patient said, "I have been on inhaled steroids for 8 months and I am feeling aches in my arms.  Can this medicine cause muscle aches and disease like the oral?  I read about it over the Internet."
50-year-old woman with vertigo and then developed severe fat intolerance.  An ultrasound showed a large solitary gallstone.  "Do we yank every gallstone?"  "Is this enough symptoms?"  "It was only a single gallstone."  I was also worried about a pancreatic disorder.  Should I do computerized tomography on her?
"I have another one for you.  It's actually quite interesting.  It's a hospital case.  What is the followup if any for Type B aortic dissection (below the subclavians)?
18-year-old male with a thyroid stimulating hormone of about 300, triglycerides 2000, low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol 450, high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol 20.  My question was, "With that high a thyroid stimulating hormone, do we start with a higher than normal dose of Synthroid (0.1 milligrams)?  And is any other evaluation indicated?"
"Exposure to Stachybotrys? Diagnosis, treatment, prognosis?"  20-year-old man.
In a patient with infectious mononucleosis, if the spleen is going to get enlarged, how long does it take to do that?  That is, how long should they stay out of sports?  And then the other question is, how long does it take to go back to normal.  Also, how big is a 10-year-old's spleen supposed to be on ultrasound?  Do you have to wait until it goes back to normal size to go back to sports or just wait 4 to 6 weeks and then go back regardless?  Also, is feeling the spleen good enough or do you need to do an ultrasound to see if someone should stay out of sports?
8-year-old girl with elevated lead level (approximately 40).  I (investigator) said, "So the question is treatment"?  He said, "No, just etiology.  I mean, is it supposed to be from iron deficiency or . . . ?
13-year-old boy complaining of gynecomastia.  Obese, type 2 diabetic.  I don't know what to do about the gynecomastia.  I don't know whether hormonal treatments would be better or surgery.
Does Strattera really work?
An inpatient who needs blood.  "If a family wants to donate blood, what is the turn around time?
This lady had morbid obesity, had bariatric surgery, no nausea or vomiting, not on a diuretic and her potassium is 3.1.  "Does bariatric surgery have anything to do with that?"
55-year-old woman.  What is the treatment for DeQuervain's tenosynovitis and should a splint be used?
Can I get a free supply of Viagra for this patient?  Can I get the 100-milligram size?
What is the differential diagnosis of sinus tachycardia in a 10-year-old?
Last week I saw a 2-week-old boy, whose sister has vesicoureteral reflux.  Mother asked, "Does he need to be checked for reflux?"
In this idiopathic-thrombocytopenia-purpura patient, when should we check the platelet count again (it's now about 40,000)?  I don't know when the tertiary center wants to check it again.
What is the dose of clindamycin for a 6-year-old with recurrent positive streptococcal sore throats?
63-year-old man with the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone.  When you're on a diuretic, the diuretic messes up the serum osmolality and urine osmolality, so how do you work up hyponatremia when the patient is on a diuretic?
12 year-old girl with chronic form of idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.  She gets routine draws every month and today her platelets were down to about 9000.  I know at around 8 to 10 you're supposed to treat but the question is, exactly at what level are you supposed to treat and what is the treatment?
I get these day care physicals, four to five kids in the house, I asked her if she needs a tuberculin skin test, she said no and it's not on the form.  I don't have a good source of information on state rules about who needs tuberculin skin testing.
And then there is the 48-hour rule out.  Some do 72 hours.  What makes one baby a 48-hour rule out and another 72 hours?
Two-year old girl with Kawasaki's diagnosed about 7 days into her illness.  Put on high-dose aspirin.  "I'm not familiar with aspirin toxicity.  The kid is a little tachycardic."  The question was whether aspirin toxicity could cause tachycardia.
This is a 49-year-old patient with a viral illness.  I recommended supportive measures but now she's back and says she's no better and wants antibiotics.  I still think it's a virus.  How long do you fight it before you just give antibiotics?
"For a Monospot, I'm not sure what the window is."
60-year-old man with carcinoma of the prostate.  He and his wife both complain that he has severe loss of memory.  "It's very confusing.  I'm really not sure what's going on.  I don't know where to look for . . . .  I need to think about him for a while before I can even formulate a question.  I don't know what's going on here is my question."
38-year-old woman.  Why is the glycosylated hemoglobin good (6.5) even though the blood sugars are mostly high (150 fasting and 200's by the end of the day)?
This patient is almost 34 years old and her mother was diagnosed with breast cancer in her early 50's.  Her mother's sister also has breast cancer and her maternal grandmother died of breast cancer in her 50's.  The question is, does she need to do anything earlier?  Genetic testing or what?
Does every person with bad esophagitis need endoscopy, looking for Barrett's?
15-month-old male had been cruising and just started walking.  He has an unusual gait (the physician demonstrated it for me, the investigator).  He walks normally with one foot but there is no swing-through phase of gait with the other, the other just stops when it is across from his planted leg (like a half-step).  Is that from walking around furniture for so long?  I wasn't sure.
Does this town have fluoride in the water?
38-year-old female with intertrigo.  The question is, what is the current treatment for intertrigo?
This family was heating their house with an open stove because they didn't think the furnace was keeping the house warm enough.  The 6-year-old boy came in with muscle aches, arthralgias, headaches, and cold symptoms.  One question was whether the stove could cause carbon monoxide poisoning.
Five-year-old boy with severe mental retardation.  Parents had lots of questions about "sensory diet."  "The general question is does sensory integration therapy work and how does it work?"
40-year-old woman with diarrhea.  Is there a certain duration of time you should let diarrhea go before doing stool studies like culture and ova and parasites?
40-year-old female with diabetes and tinea pedis.  Not resolved with Lamisil over the counter.  What other broad spectrum cream should she use?
Child with hyperactivity.  A famous thing they put in books:  Make sure you exclude other causes of hyperactivity.  But no one tells you how to do that.  Well, what exactly do you do?  It's quite maddening.
41-year-old woman.  In women in their early 40's, still menstruating, having regular cycles, but having hot flashes, normal follicle stimulating hormone, do you really do hormone treatments with them?  What do you do with these people?  Hormone replacement?  Should we do it?
Mother of this child wanted to get a flu shot.  She is breast feeding and wanted to know if it was safe.
Can we use the QBC (automated complete blood count with automated differential) to differentiate viral from bacterial infection?
I have a 2-month-old with a varicocele and the question is, how long can I watch it?
I wonder if there's any increase in the incidence of elevated liver function tests from the combination of statins and niacin as opposed to niacin alone?
10-year-old girl with chronic urticaria.  She had a positive antinuclear antibody test.  The parents asked me what are the chances of getting lupus later.
Five-year-old boy with "reactive airway disease."  The question was, "What is the difference between asthma and reactive airway disease?"
Yesterday I admitted a 3-year-old boy with a fever of 105 degrees.  His white count was 59,000.  I had to look at the algorithm on fever in kids with unknown source.  I had to remind myself about the recommended management.
Man with orogenital ulcers. Cultures from oral lesions and genital lesions were both negative.  Referred to tertiary center who said he responded well to acyclovir and they thought he had herpes.  "How sensitive is that test?" (meaning the herpes culture)
85-year-old female.  This patient asked, if I have fecal occult blood testing every year for 20 years, do I need a flexible sigmoidoscopy?  Wouldn't the occult blood testing be just as good?
49-year-old woman asked the physician to fill out a disability form.  "My question is what are the diagnostic criteria for fibromyalgia because that's what the form is asking for (which criteria does she have)."
I just referred an 18-month-old boy with persistent cervical lymph node enlargement to a tertiary center.  The question was, "Do these nodes need to be biopsied?"
I've got a woman with stage I breast cancer, 2 years status post mastectomy.  "Am I considered a survivor?"  That's what she asked me.
60-year-old woman just had a pulmonary embolus and deep vein thrombosis a few months back.  She has Factor V Leiden, homozygous and she wanted me to give her more information for her children.  I (investigator) said, "So the question is . . . "  She said, "The question is prophylactic anticoagulation for them and information for their kids (grandchildren of the patient)."
Does psychosocial stress play a role in triggering enuresis?
Yesterday our chief resident got a call from the local newspaper wanting to know our position on circumcision because he wanted to start an anticircumcision group.
Eleven-month-old twins with otitis media.  A tympanocentesis came back Hemophilus influenzae sensitive to ampicillin/sulbactam but resistant to amoxicillin/clavulanate.  So which oral antibiotic should we put them on?
50-year-old woman.  What are the indications for getting bone density scans?
What is the dose of Amaryl?
9-month-old whose sibling died of meningococcemia.  The question is whether this child should get conjugated meningococcal vaccine and if so how do I get it for her.
Patient with ingrown toenail.  What is Cutivate?  (The chart said he was on this.)
Yesterday I saw a 15-year-old girl with shingles.  I sent her to the dermatologist because it was an atypical presentation, since she was only 15, so I was wondering whether it could be an immune deficiency.
What is the normal respiratory rate for a two-month-old who was born at 34-weeks gestation and just normal vital signs for infants in general?
A patient asked me a couple of days ago, "Should I take Vitamin B6 or Vitamin B12 for my neuropathy?"
I had a baby with a club foot and the question was, "What should I do?"  The question was whether this can wait or needs to be referred soon.
Have you heard of the new rules for ordering lipids?  I (investigator) said, "so the question is . . . what should I do with this?"  She said, "Yeah.  How do I follow therapy?  Should I just order the whole panel and tell the patients they have to pay?"
38-year-old female, chronic cocaine abuser.  "A woman admitted with possible cocaine ingestion.  In body stuffers, is it safe to use GoLYTELY?
When in the course of the illness is Parvovirus (Fifth disease) infectious to pregnant women?
16-year-old girl with primary pulmonary hypertension.  "If she gets wheezing, can I give albuterol?  What does albuterol do to pulmonary artery pressure?"
The nurse came in and wanted to refill a prescription.  She said she had never heard of etodolac and wanted to know the other name for it.
27-year-old woman with rash on her face.  The rash almost had a butterfly pattern and my question was whether warfarin can cause a lupus-like reaction.
61-year-old woman.  What is the best approach for elbow epicondylitis in terms of treatment -- steroid shot first or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories first?
Could skin lesions consistent with warfarin-induced skin necrosis be that if the patient has been on warfarin for "some time"?
For osteoporosis, when do you use Evista versus when do you go to Fosamax?  And when to do the intravenous bisphosphonate, Zometa?
Is there a new pill for stopping smoking besides Zyban?
43-year-old woman.  What do you do with premenopausal dysfunctional uterine bleeding?
"PEG-interferon (pegylated interferon, polyethylene glycol) in Hepatitis C.  There's some information out there about it but . . . ."
This is a 45-year-old woman who noticed a lump under her cheek bone and there are some overlying skin changes.  It's near the parotid.  The question is, what would cause this lump on the cheek.
14-year-old boy.  Ketaconazole for tinea capitis.  I (investigator) asked if the question was the dose.  He said, "Dose and duration of therapy."
8-year-old male with painful red bumps on his heel.  Red painful subcutaneous, 3 to 4 millimeters in diameter.  Couldn't find anything helpful in three references in my office.
15-month-old boy with anemia and failure to thrive.  I decided this was a viral thing.  But, "how do I follow this up?"
Newborn male.  Why do they need to urinate after circumcision?  In other words, why do hospitals have a rule that the baby has to urinate after circumcision before they can be discharged?  What would you do if the baby didn't void and how long would you wait?
I can't remember the formula for converting hemoglobin A1C to average blood sugar.
There is a company doing very well here that sells screening ultrasound for carotid artery stenosis, abdominal aortic aneurysm, and ankle-brachial reflexes, all three for one hundred dollars, or you can get just one for thirty-five dollars.  I've sent a few people.  My partners say, "What are you doing that for?"  They have no symptoms.  But sometimes they find things even without symptoms.  So I don't know . . . .
Twenty-six-month-old boy.  Serum sickness.  This kid came in first with hives on amoxicillin, no mucus membrane involvement.  Then his ankles were swollen and tender and he wouldn't walk and he had a fever.  "The question was, what caused this?  Was it a serum sickness?  Was it . . . ?  It wasn't Stevens Johnson Syndrome."
I asked the pathologist, "Is there any syndrome where you get hypersensitive to a normal hematocrit when you have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and you need phlebotomies for that reason?"
Does this 9-month-old boy need any immunizations?
12-year-old boy.  I'm seeing a lot of patients with cough.  When is it appropriate to investigate for pertussis and how do you do it?
How long do you continue antidepressants or antianxiety medications after the patient is improved?
48-year-old noticed increasing prominence of his tibial tubercles.  No pain.  He noticed them becoming bigger one year ago after working on a roof.
16-month-old with intoeing.  I had to look up intoeing before I went into the room.  I (investigator) asked what the question was.  He said, "How to distinguish whether the intoeing is just physiologic?"
A young woman was very concerned about whether she could have herpes.  She asked, "How long does it take for herpes to show up after you have been exposed?"
45-year-old woman.  How should I follow up an elevated gamma glutamyltransferase and occasionally mildly elevate alanine aminotransferase in a Type 2 diabetic with hypercholesterolemia, well controlled on Lipitor?
59-year-old man with a generalized rash.  No allergies, no virus infection.  What is the best approach?  Oral steroids?  Skin biopsy?  Send to dermatology?
Drug representative was visiting.  "I have a patient who is still having pain on Celebrex.  What is the maximum dose?"
21-year-old woman, has been on cholesterol medications, on massive doses of things, well not massive, but she's on Lipitor and Lopid and then Tricor.  Triglycerides 415, cholesterol 157, high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol 26, low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol cannot calculate.  I asked my partner, "What would you do with this girl?"
I did a computerized tomography scan of the abdomen in a patient and it was because of some recurrent abdominal pain and one of the findings was that the proximal portion of the third part of the duodenum was somewhat dilated compared to the distal part, and then while they were, you know, saying that, I'm thinking what, you know, what does that mean?
Fourteen-year-old with keratosis pilaris.  I never know what to do with that.
2-year-old.  "I didn't know if the otolaryngology associations have any succinct guidelines for myringotomy tubes for kids."
What is nabumetone?
Coronary angioplasty and stent placed last week.  Started on Ticlid, looks like she's allergic to it.  She's supposed to be on Ticlid one more week.  Obviously we've got to stop it.  Do they want her on something else or just stop it?
Has been on hormone replacement therapy for several years, menopausal for 10 years.  Has breast tenderness and spotting a couple of times a year.  What can I do to lessen her symptoms related to hormone replacement therapy?
What is a good steroid eye drop?
What is the dose of Zithromax for this 35-kilogram kid?
Does she have any underlying inflammation of her kidneys?  Creatinine approximately 1.0, 3+ albumin on urinalysis, just over 500 milligrams protein/ 24 hrs, normal intravenous pyelogram.
Is Aeromonas caviae pathogenic?
44-year-old woman.  What is the generic name of Halcion?  She was on a sleeper that began with a T.  Wanted to see if she could get a refill.
What is the least expensive cholesterol lowering drug?  Dr. X usually uses Pravachol and Mevacor but they are expensive so thought he'd try Lescol.
Is there another way to remove warts without scarring besides cryotherapy?  This 3/4 cm wart on the knee was treated 6 weeks ago with cryotherapy, now red and raised and possible keloid forming.
I'm not sure what's going on with her.  Thumping pain in ears and sore throat off and on for 2 weeks.  Streptococcus test negative.  History of ear problems for many years.  They want antibiotics so will give amoxicillin and Cataflam.  There may be an infection there, but I'm not sure so if not improved will refer to ENT (ear, nose, and throat physician).
What does the health maintenance organization (HMO) formulary say I can use for this patient's nasal condition?
This morning I saw a 7-year-old girl with enuresis.  I asked my partner "What's hot on enuresis?"
Is this male child depressed?  Child's counselor thinks Ritalin is stimulating him and suggested he shouldn't be on it. Dr. X thought he looked the best he has looked while on Ritalin but took him off and started him on Prozac.
What are the best exercises for rotator cuff?
What is causing her right-lower-quadrant pain (severe sharp pain)?
What is causing the chronic itching?
What are the long term effects of allergy injections?  Patient asked me and I didn't know the answer.
Pregnant female with hyperemesis.  Dr. X was on the phone with hospital ordering intravenous fluids for this patient.  Question is:  Is Vitamin B6 by injection more effective than by the oral route?  She told him she had it by injection in a previous pregnancy and thought it helped.
What are these pills she got in Mexico?
Kindergarten physical, due for diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus vaccine (DPT) #5, but had only 3 previous diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus vaccines.  Do I need to play catch up and give fourth and fifth or just fourth?  Legally fourth is all she needs but medically what would be best?
This 25-year-old woman wants to start a family.  Her brother has spina bifida.  I can't remember the recommendation for folic acid when you have a family history of spina bifida (1 milligram versus 4 milligrams every day).
I felt an elongated mass coming off the prostate and extending laterally, feels like a tight muscle. It's thin as a pencil lead and long, not sure what it is.  One question is "Who should I punt to?"  I'm not even sure what the question is.
What caused her periorbital swelling?
In an old person with an osteoporotic fracture does Fosamax speed or delay the healing process?  Does Fosamax interfere with healing?
Does Cozaar bother renal function?
What do practitioners do in cases of pharyngitis?  Streptococcal screens, or wait, or hit them with antibiotics?
How do you prescribe Epi-Pen?  Three episodes of itching, then hives, then short of breath.  Two times following eating shrimp.
Patient with amenorrhea for 6 months.  Prolactin slightly high, testosterone slightly high.  Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) consistent with follicular phase.  I just waited and she got her period spontaneously but I don't really have an answer as to the cause.
65-year-old man with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, status post coronary artery bypass graft, chronic cough, congestive heart failure, rales at bases. Gave him Lasix, but that has not worked for the cough.  Now what to do?
This child was admitted to the hospital for intravenous hydration.  How much fluid replacement and at what rate should Dr. X order?  (patient weighs 42 pounds, down from 45 pounds normally)
For infants with colic and gastroesophageal reflux disease, what do the experts use as rough guidelines for when to treat with medications?
People with recurrent sinusitis.  When I was in practice (he's now in urgicenter), I used to get nasal cultures and sometimes I would get interesting results like Staphylococcus aureus. What's the role of nasal cultures in patients with recurrent sinusitis?
What is the dose of Famvir?
This young woman has atypical chest pain.  Can you ignore it?  She has a strong family history of coronary disease.  Our young police chief just had a coronary artery bypass graft.
What is the efficacy of monitoring fetal heart rates?  We always do it.
I saw a woman this morning with cancer of the breast.  Now has a mass on the chest wall which was found to be carcinoma.  The oncologist is seeing her and keeps saying we're going to do something (radiation, chemotherapy, et cetera).  My question and her's is when? What are we waiting for?
What class of antihypertensives have the least effect on male sexual function?
Mother is alcoholic and abuses tobacco.  What are statistics regarding inheritance of tobacco abuse and relationship to social situation?
54-year-old woman complaining of feet burning.  Normal blood sugar, heart and lungs.  I can't find a single reason why her feet should be burning.  She gets Vitamin B12 in her multivitamins.
How do you approach a nursing home patient who is incontinent?  The nurses think there is a motivation issue with her.  Elderly woman status post stroke.  Residual 300 cubic centimeters in morning but 100 cubic centimeters at end of day, bed damp at times.
Have there been any studies with low molecular weight heparin in pregnancy because I have an obstetric patient who had a deep vein thrombosis with her last pregnancy and I'm wondering if I can use it?
She's now here for a recheck but when she first came in I wondered whether the x-ray showed a fracture.
What is the dose of Pediazole for this child?  It has been taken out of a reference.
Does breast feeding affect diabetic control?  Patient says her sugars are dropping and wonders if it is breast feeding that is influencing this.  Also needing to use her glasses more.
I saw a 30-year-old man and admitted him with meningismus.  I was sure he did not have meningitis but wanted to cover him with Claforan intravenously and ampicillin.  Turned out to be a urinary tract infection.  Don't know why he had meningismus.  I had to look up dose of Claforan.
How long do I let diarrhea go before doing a stool culture?
How can I keep up with all this paperwork?
Can we do the PKU (phenylketonuria test) today on this 4-day-old baby?  Amish, home delivery, breast feeding.
She has a 2-month-old tibial plateau fracture and is overweight.  The question is whether to let her start bearing weight on it.
Why is she fatigued?  This is follow-up visit.  Automated blood count abnormal but done by hand was normal.  Doing thyroxine today since thyroid stimulating hormone was elevated.  Patient smokes 1 1/2 packs per day.  Trying to cut back.
Is it okay to say I completely don't know?  I don't know what this rash is.  We've tried changing detergents.  Goes away with prednisone but comes right back.  Comes with pressure but doesn't look like urticaria.
What is the name of that dimple in the lower back in infants that can be a sign of spina bifida?
She lives by herself and her family wants her in a nursing home.  Should she be in a nursing home?
Do you generally use antiinflammatory drugs for acute joint injuries before you inject?
Do I need to wait until the baby is a certain age before I do the renal ultrasound for single umbilical artery?
This patient has a history of irregular heart beat, bigeminy and trigeminy.  He's having a few brief runs occasionally now.  On Quinidine in the past.  Should I treat these?
Why does she have these tachycardia spells (was 120, 130 by her report, now 90)?
Man in his 90's with a change is bowel habits, and decreased caliber of stools.  Do you (1) do a sigmoidoscopy, (2) do nothing, (3) compromise and use Hemoccult cards?
Do these face films show a fracture?
12-year-old boy on Ritalin has an elevated alkaline phosphatase (approximately 360 with normal 30 to 325) and phosphorus (approximately 6.0 with normal 2.3 to 4.6).  I'm not sure if Ritalin can cause that or what can cause it.
What is the incidence of dyspareunia after a vaginal wall cyst?  This was removed about a year ago by a gynecologist and for the past year she has had this problem.
What should I do about this patient's husband?  Husband is symptomatic and wife has bacterial vaginitis.  Doctor did a microscopic exam.
What are the normal limits for age of menopause so you can say this is within normal limits (age 36) and you don't have to worry about it?
His nurse's grandmother called in for a prescription for Novahistine.  What is Novahistine elixir and what is the dose?
How do you motivate a diabetic patient to make positive life style changes; that is, dietary.  Patient admits he isn't following recommended diet.
What is the dose of Flagyl for Gardnerella vaginitis?
Why did they cut out the expanding granuloma which was due to Coccidiomycosis immitis, rather than just treat it medically?
I have a frustrated woman who insists on having surgery for a normal gall bladder.  Oral cholecystogram and ultrasound were normal.  Complains of right-upper-quadrant pain and bloating.  Surgeon did esophagogastroduodenoscopy which was normal and recommended cholecystectomy.  Where do we go from here?  Get second opinion?
What is the practical value of neurobehavioral testing in the dementia patient?
17-year-old for a Reserve Officers' Training Corps physical.  He has a Grade I to II systolic murmur.  Should he get an echocardiogram?
Can uterine fibroids cause constipation?
Phone call with patient.  She was on Procardia and blood pressure still elevated so he added Vasotec and blood pressure went higher.  Question is why did blood pressure go up with addition of Vasotec?
45-year-old man, overweight, snores at night, thick neck, falling asleep in daytime, told as a child he should have adenoids out.  "Do you ever operate on folks like this without a sleep study?"
Repeat Papanicolaou smear for past cervical inflammation.  Question:  If Papanicolaou smear comes back a second time with inflammation, should you do a colposcopy?
72-year-old man seen this morning.  Dr. X thinks he has genital herpes.  The patient asked, "How long does herpes go on?"
Should we be screening for prostate cancer routinely with the prostate specific antigen?
What are the chances of reversing a vasectomy?  He asked me and I didn't know.  Specifically, does the technique of doing a vasectomy affect the chance of reversal?
Can you take Norvasc once a day?
What is the dose of Azmacort?
What is Zyprexa?
What is the dose of Vanceril inhaler?
What is Lotrel?
What shots do I need to go to Egypt?
She has a history of mitral valve prolapse but I can't hear a murmur or a click.  Do you really need to give subacute bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis in this case?  The podiatrist has taken the decision away and said he will give intravenous antibiotics before the procedure.
Is this appendicitis or viral gastroenteritis?
Will be married in November and period is due to fall on wedding day -- could she be put on birth control pills to change her period date?  Is two months enough time to effect this change?
I'm uncertain about what to do with her knee problems.  Has osteoarthritis, difficulty walking, x-rays don't look too bad.
Is diarrhea a frequent side effect of Cleocin (pediatric)?  Patient is a 17-month-old male with pharyngitis for 5 days, a week ago.
This patient has a raised scaly patch about 2.5 centimeters on her cheek of 1 month to 5 weeks duration.  No history of eczema.  Has been using moisturizing cream on it.  No make up.  What is the cause of this erythematous patch on this patient's cheek?
38-year-old female seen this morning.  How to workup case of suspected infectious mononucleosis in someone with a history of infectious mononucleosis?
Is the pain in her legs from intermittent claudication or is it from diabetic neuropathy?
Is Valtrex appropriate and cost effective to treat this patient with chicken pox?  Patient was seen in the emergency room earlier in the week by the physician on call for Dr. X.
Can testes not being in the scrotum come from just being tense?
Her headaches don't fit a pattern.  Are they migraines?  (Complicated because there is so much going on socially.)
What is the policy for post-exposure needlestick injuries?
This woman with a burn wants a refill of SSD.  What does SSD stand for? (Turned out to be silver sulfadiazine.)
Patient with gluteus spasm from starting a lawn mower.  Where are those bursae near the right hip?
What is the average length of time between quitting breast feeding and when lactation should stop?  Is there any correlation between this time and development of fibrocystic breast disease?  That is, if long time, more likely to develop it.  This patient has a cyst.
What liquid prednisone tastes better?  Pediapred or Prelone?
38-year-old man.  What are the Ottawa criteria for ankle x-rays?
When should you catheterize little boys since it can be pretty traumatic for them?  (16-month-old)  (He put bag on to collect urine.)
This patient has clinical signs of pneumonia (rales, et cetera).  Should I do further tests such as a chest x-ray?
No symptoms, previous prostate biopsy.  Prostate specific antigen in 1994= approximately 4; 1995= approximately 4; 1996=approximately 6.5.  What to do?  Should you biopsy again?
This patient has back and pelvic pain without a fall.  Is there a stress fracture?  Patient also has some confusion so admitted for outpatient observation.
Does this patient need antibiotics?  He came in expecting them but I think it's not streptococcus.  No fever.  I did not do a throat culture because he has no insurance and I did not want him to have that expense.
Does she have pneumonia?
Can her walker which is an old one without wheels, have wheels put on it and will Medicare cover the cost?
What are recommendations for subacute bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis for hysteroscopy?
Is it ever recommended these days in a young man with recurrent peptic ulcer disease to have a vagotomy?  Will his health maintenance organization pay for it?
Mother died at age 55 of colon cancer.  I will send her to the gastroenterologist for a colonoscopy ($1500).  I sometimes wonder whether to do this because it's so expensive versus a flexible sigmoidoscopy and barium enema which is cheaper but not as good.
Has huge ganglion on right wrist.  What is causing all the joint pain?
A laboratory technician that works at the clinic is 38 weeks pregnant and had a positive group B streptococcal test.  Question is do we know enough about this test to be using it in the way we do?
How hard do you push to catch kids up on hepatitis B and varicella vaccine at their kindergarten physical?  Do people still do tuberculin skin tests (PPD's) and that kind of stuff?
Another phone conversation with hospital pharmacist regarding providing enough dosage of typhoid capsules for Dr. X and his wife for out of country trip.
What is the other drug besides Famvir and acyclovir for Herpes Zoster?
Patient with chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease, thoroughly worked up.  Responds well to Tagamet.  He says oral vitamin B12 helps.  He asked me why.  I didn't know.
Question asked of Dr. X by resident:  Patient on birth control is having breakthrough bleeding.  In her case is it best to increase the level of estrogen in her medication?
What are the appropriate immunizations for these 7-month-old twins?
She had Clomid the first time and had twins.  Is there an increased incidence of twins in the second pregnancy without Clomid in someone who had twins the first time on Clomid?
What is this rash on his upper arms and legs?
Phone call from mother.  Child receiving desmopressin nasal spray for enuresis.  She paid $111 for 50-dose spray.  Can that be the correct cost?
Woman in her 90's. Is there a mass in her cecum?  At her age, if there is a mass, should she undergo a major surgery?  She has had RLQ pain for about a year that she hasn't mentioned before.  She refuses barium enema.
In an adult female teacher with a lapse in her Hepatitis B series, how long can you wait after the second shot before you have to start the whole series over?
What is the dose of Dexedrine SR?  What size do they come in?
What is the name of the tendon (not the biceps) that comes across the anterior aspect of the shoulder?
What is the optimum dose of penicillin for streptococcal sore throat in a 5-year-old boy?
Infant had cradle-cap-type dermatitis and he wondered which shampoo to use because of concern for toxicity.  Would it be better to use Selsun or ketoconazole?
49-year-old man in for hepatitis recheck.  All tests had been negative but today patient said frequent stools again and "getting yellow."  Question is what is the cause of this hepatitis and where do I go from here with testing, et cetera?
Should I use Serevent (long acting beta agonist) or an inhaled steroid?  Which would be the more effective?
Are Lotensin tablets scored and what doses does it come in?
Is it okay to use cervical traction in this woman with headaches and cervical arthritis and minimal instability on cervical spine films?
What is the dose of amoxicillin in this 5-month-old who weighs 14lbs, 12oz?
How do you tell if a patient is having a bronchospasm if they don't wheeze?
Is it really worth using hormone replacement therapy in this woman who now has spotting and will require an endometrial biopsy?
45-year-old man with hypertension on Tenex.  Had questionable side effects including headache, fatigue, and lightheaded.  Are these really side effects of Tenex?
He admitted this male patient to the hospital early this morning with pericarditis.  The question is, "What is the current treatment for acute pericarditis?"
What is the dose of Bactrim for this 40-pound child?
Need to increase Ziac from 5 to 10 for better control.  Is there a difference in price between the two doses?
I had a man with neuropathy and cardiomyopathy.  Could this be due to Agent Orange?  He was at the Veterans Administration hospital and chronic renal failure and congestive heart failure were on the death certificate, but not Agent Orange.
What is the return on lumbosacral spine films for a patient with sciatica?
How long should you wait after giving the digoxin dose before you get a digoxin level?
I'm not familiar with Serzone.  How long does it take to start acting?  What are the side effects?  Because she's complaining of being tired.
Patient with chronic abdominal pain.  I don't know what to do for it.  What is the cause?  He's had two negative computerized tomography (CT) scans.
Phone call, family of 81-year-old woman wants lab and x-ray results.  Tell them "I'm still reviewing the results."  81-year-old new patient with heart burn, low abdominal pain, hip pain.  Question of a uterine fibroid palpated on abdominal exam.  Ultrasound showed "abnormal endometrium with irregular margins and a small fluid/blood collection.  Why would an 81 year old have that?  Wasn't sure what to do with that.
I would have had to look up mefloquine but he is staying in the city in Viet Nam so I don't need to look it up.
Is it gall bladder or gastritis pain?
67-year-old woman with a normal workup for microscopic hematuria.  How often do they need follow up intravenous pyelogram and cystoscopy?  I assume we'll get a urinalysis every year.  Intravenous pyelogram and cystoscopy were recently normal.
What is causing the elevated liver function tests?
Patient has a small cervical os, next time I do a Papanicolaou smear, would it be best to use estrogen cream prior to the procedure?  (Patient is currently on hormone replacement therapy, estrogen and progesterone.)
Is there something like a screening test for diabetic neuropathy that's practical for family physicians?  I'd probably lose those nylon things.  I just touch their feet with my finger.
Does Synthroid come in 175 microgram pills?  (His thyroid stimulating hormone was approximately 7.0.)
What would cause thyroiditis and elevated liver function tests?
He noted that a lead level check had not been done yet so it was drawn today.  How can we check every child for this?  Do we try to do too much?
What virus is this?
44-year-old man has been seeing a chiropractor for neck pain.  Then had motor vehicle accident and neck got worse.  Orthopedist said nothing wrong with neck.  Patient came to Dr. X at suggestion of his lawyer.  Dr. X never saw him before and didn't want to see him now.  He will go ahead and give his opinion but the question is what to do in a situation like this.
37-year-old man with a viral upper respiratory infection.  Is it okay to give the influenza shot to someone with an upper respiratory infection?
How could you distinguish between withdrawal symptoms and recurrence of original symptoms if a patient were taken off lorazepam?
A man had a tumor on his tongue.  I did not know what it was so I referred him to an otolaryngologist.  The question was "What is this tumor on the tongue?"
How often should a carotid doppler be ordered for follow-up on this 76-year-old woman with hypertension and cardiovascular disease?
Before I got the positive Monospot back, the thought went through my mind "What if these glands aren't from infectious mononucleosis?  When do you do a lymph node biopsy so you aren't late with a lymphoma diagnosis?  Can you wait 2 to 3 weeks?"
Why does he have eye pain and blurred vision (referred to ophthalmologist)?
Is there more support we can provide to patients with macular degeneration?
Is this a bacterial or a viral infection?
He has a history of getting hit in the head and neck and getting two "stingers" with numbness down his arm.  Now in for a preparticipation physical.  When do you do a neck x-ray?
Should we do a CT (computerized tomography) with contrast tomorrow (Saturday) or wait until Monday to do an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) (when the machine on truck comes)?
This man had unprotected intercourse with a stranger 5 days before I saw him last week, complains of yellow urethral discharge.  I got gonorrhea and Chlamydia cultures.  The discharge resolved spontaneously 2 days later.  What to do now?
The cardiologist said in his letter that the patient has a distinct fourth heart sound.  Why aren't I hearing the fourth heart sound?  I couldn't hear it -- I guess I need to review heart sounds.
I'll have to look this up -- how to measure the voltage on an electrocardiogram.  What do you add to what to diagnose ventricular hypertrophy?
The sedimentation rate is 42 in this woman with possible diverticulitis.  The question is whether to have the surgeon see her or not.
This is a 72-year-old woman who needs an intravenous pyelogram.  She had a normal blood urea nitrogen and creatinine done two months ago.  Is that recent enough or do we need to repeat the creatinine now?
Has a Pseudomonas urinary tract infection sensitive to Cipro but no other oral drugs (in nursing home).  Had a Foley catheter but now out.  Should I add another antibiotic to the Cipro (use 2 drugs)?
Her sodium is 133 and potassium 3.3.  Why is she borderline low on sodium and potassium?  Could her Dilacor do it?  (also on Ventolin and Slobid)  I didn't look up Dilacor.
Could this patient with pelvic inflammatory disease and generalized abdominal pain have Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome?
69-year-old man with gout, now has 3 days of swelling in wrist, I ordered an ANA (antinuclear antibody) since gout not typical in wrist.  ANA (antinuclear antibody) is positive 1:40 mixed pattern.  What does this mean and what should I do about it?
What is Uristat (it's over the counter)?  Is it the same thing as pyridium?
What do you do with an angiotensin-converting-enzyme-inhibitor-induced cough?
What is the dose of Famvir?  I thought it was 500 milligrams three times a day but a recent New England Journal of Medicine article says 750 milligrams.
Patient had a pleomorphic adenoma removed from her carotid artery.  Question is whether this is a totally benign condition.
85-year-old female with night sweats and tachycardia.  Normal Holter and thyroid functions.  What could be causing the night sweats and tachycardia?
What is Endolimax nana and should you treat it?
What are some of the psychodynamics?  This is the first time I've seen her.  She's seen my colleagues but I can't get everything from the records.  I'm sure there's more because her complaint is fatigue.  There's more to it than just adjusting her asthma medications.
Could the cause of her weakness and dizziness be that she gets bradycardia at times from her medications?  She's on Calan SR, a beta blocker and Lanoxin.  Her pulse now is 88 but maybe it gets slow at times.
Is it better to use prescription or over-the-counter Antivert?  Patient has a ten dollar co-pay.
This patient has a cervical radiculopathy with numbness of all four fingers (not the thumb).  X-rays show foraminal narrowing at cervical spine level 5-6 (C5-6).  What fingers are innervated by C5-6?
Is Serzone okay to give to someone with a partial gastrectomy, will it be absorbed?
What are the causes of tinnitus?
What do you do with dysuria with a negative urinalysis and negative vaginal wet prep (preparation)?
Patient with periodic hyperkalemic paralysis.  Episodes every 2-3 weeks require her to come by ambulance, get admitted for albuterol, D50 (50 percent dextrose), insulin.  Why can't we give her albuterol and insulin every day as prevention, not just treatment?
Woman with sodium of 128.  Do I put her in the hospital or treat her at home?
Patient is post pessary insertion yesterday for urinary incontinence and cystocele.  Is her urinary tract infection associated with this procedure?
This elderly woman had a hemoglobin of 7.5 and a positive stool for occult blood.  Is it okay to let her go home and work her up as an outpatient.  She did not want to go to the hospital.  She won't have any reserve if she's in a car accident or something.
What percent of migraines have loss of vision associated with them?  Is that the cause of her loss of vision?  She lost all the vision in her right eye.  Computerized tomography (CT) and labs were fine.
What is the best approach to functional abdominal pain in children?
Do you need to do a tuberculin skin test if you want to rule out tuberculosis in a patient with hemoptysis and the patient has a negative chest x-ray?
A 9-year-old girl had been to Wacky Waters, now has clear vesicles on her hands, may be staphylococcal infection even though the vesicles are clear but I want to see what they have to say.
Man with stomach ulcers.  Can't take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.  Why can't I get the only thing that ever worked (Plegine)?  What is it and how can I get it?
Why did she get Coccidiomycosis?  She's in her 60's, goes to Florida every winter.
Should this 4-year-old have a computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)?  Headaches since before Christmas (over 2 months).
A reference says you should monitor complete blood counts (CBCs) and liver functions when on Klonopin, but how often?
Patient was on penicillin for 4 days for an infected pierced ear lobe.  Now seen today for sore throat and streptococcal culture positive.  The question is, why is the streptococcal culture still positive, what percent of streptococci are resistant to penicillin?
How do you deal with a patient who is going South next week for the winter and she needs a follow up thyroid function test in 6 weeks?
Patient had a hysterectomy in 1992 for benign disease.  How often should a Papanicolaou smear be done on these patients?
I'm 95% sure this is carpal tunnel syndrome but I'm not 100% sure.
Can I use an MAO (monoamine oxidase) inhibitor such as Nardil in this patient who is on Risperdal and Synthroid and has been abusing Dalmane?
How long does labyrinthitis last?
What is causing her dysuria?  (UA is negative.)
Patient in the hospital with premature rupture of membranes and twins.  I read the RADIUS (Routine Antenatal Diagnostic Imaging With Ultrasound) trial in the New England Journal of Medicine.  I never used to do routine ultrasound but here everybody does it.  I felt vindicated when RADIUS (Routine Antenatal Diagnostic Imaging With Ultrasound) was published.  But I recently went to an OB talk and they were bad mouthing the study.  This patient wanted to know the sex so I ordered the ultrasound and she turned out to have twins.  So now I'm uncertain about whether I should be doing routine prenatal ultrasound.
Is this chest pain due to coronary disease?  Electrocardiogram just shows an old myocardial infarction.
Could this compression fracture of T12 (twelfth thoracic vertebra) be caused by cancer or what could be the cause?  (Prostate cancer or Pagets or what)?
The same patient got bullous pemphigoid but I didn't know what the rash was and I had to look it up.
For long standing fluid behind the ear drum, should I order steroids?  Patient says ears feel plugged up.
The question is what antibiotics do you give for diverticulitis.  I used to give Keflex and Flagyl.  I think now you give Cipro and Flagyl.  I always have to look it up.
This patient had well-documented Crohn's Disease in 1979.  He's had no flare up for the past nine years and he's only been on Metamucil.  How was he able to go so long without a flare up?
Why does this 9-year-old male have urinary frequency?  No painful urination and urinalysis negative.
What is the best treatment for poison ivy?
Are her symptoms (sweating, feeling of being stimulated, nervous) due to Paxil?
Is casting adequate treatment for this 10-year-old girl with a fracture of the distal radius?  X-ray showed it was slightly displaced.
Woman got an echocardiogram this morning.  "Biventricular thickening, might consider amyloidosis."  How is it that I workup amyloid and is it worth it?
What kind of asthma inhalers are okay to use in pregnancy?
42-year-old woman with upper respiratory infection.  Wants to know when she should go back to work.  That's always a question -- when you should let someone go back.
What is causing her anemia?
18-year-old male with hematuria.  The question was how to interpret the antistreptolysin O (ASO) titer results.  He was worried about acute glomerulonephritis in this patient.  The antistreptolysin O titer on this patient was elevated.
Can this rash be a drug reaction to 1% hydrocortisone or some inert ingredient in the preparation?
Patient on Estrace.  What is the equivalent dose of Premarin?
Patient with mild hypertension (150/80, 140/85).  Should you go by their pressure in the office, or do you believe them if it's okay at home?
Saw this patient earlier.  I overheard his telephone conversation with hospital pharmacist (I believe patient is in hospital).  Question he had was whether they make a one gram pill of Glucophage.
Had shortness of breath which is unusual for her.  Doctor wishes she had access to a list of things that might cause shortness of breath in a normally healthy 28-year-old.  Concerned about pulmonary embolism.
I saw an obese diabetic female yesterday who said she couldn't sleep while taking Glucotrol XL.  She told me she wanted to go back on insulin in any case (moot point), but I wondered if Glucotrol is associated with insomnia.
What is the dose of imipramine for a 10-year-old boy?
Patient with balanitis.  What is balanitis?  What is the differential diagnosis?
Patient having significant hot flashes.  Are any of her medications causing her hot flashes?  On Premarin, Provera, and Prozac.  Elevated urinary metanephrines.  You order these tests and then wonder what to do with them.
What is the protocol for this patient's health maintenance organization for when I should see her back to follow up her otitis media?  Am I supposed to see her in one month like I used to or 6 weeks or what?
Doctor X thinks he is probably just a normal 18 month old but would like to know if there are a certain number of respiratory infections that are considered normal for that age.
This patient is overweight and has been for years and won't do anything to lose weight.  She is on so many medications which I try to get her off of.  What can you do?
At what ages should you do a Denver Developmental Screening Test?
Has a rash that is not getting better.  How should I treat it?  Would Cordran be appropriate?
A patient with pharyngitis.  Is it streptococcus or not?
Nonfasting blood sugar approximately 370, fasting blood sugar approximately 45.  Drew glycosylated hemoglobin today.  Dr. X thinks there is a condition with high postprandial blood sugars.  Is there a better name for glucose intolerance?
Should I charge her child for an office visit (not scheduled just brought her in as an add on)?
Is the chest pain from costochondritis or Herpes Zoster?
Should he be on his Dilantin for the rest of his life?  Can he come off it now?  How should I follow him if he comes off?
34-year-old female, history of intermittent abdominal pain followed by diarrheal stool, followed by nausea, followed by vomiting.  This occurs about 1 time per month or every other month but no menstrual pattern.  Barium swallow, upper gastrointestinal series, gall bladder ultrasound all negative.  What is causing these symptoms?
Should or could tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) have been used to treat this patient immediately after his stroke in the emergency room?
Status post bone marrow transplant.  Diagnosis of left lower lobe pneumonia by chest x-ray.  Why hasn't he had any physical findings consistent with pneumonia?  Is there some underlying problem?
What is the dose of Vantin?  (patient with a dog bite)
77-year-old woman.  Should I put her on a cholesterol lowering drug?  What benefit would it be at her age, other than a financial burden?
What is the correct dosage form of Retin-A cream?
A woman with bad acne, status post bilateral tubal ligation is on Accutane.  Dermatologist put her on oral contraceptive too.  Why?
This patient has a history of rectal cancer, status post surgery.  Her carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) was approximately 60 a year ago.  When should I do another carcinoembryonic antigen?
Dr. X said Tagamet has been used successfully for treatment of warts--recommended by a dermatology professor.  Question is, what is appropriate dosage?
Does this woman with moon face, hair growth and buffalo hump have Cushing's Syndrome?  If cortisol levels are elevated, where do I go next?
46-year-old woman.  One of her children said, "Mom, what's that lump in your neck?"  I think she has a multinodular goiter.  Thyroid stimulating hormone, free thyroxine (free T4), parathyroid hormone, calcitonin all normal.  Would you skinny needle her?
Is it really safe to use Paxil during the first trimester of pregnancy.  I think it is but I want to confirm that it is.
Old guy with fatigue and poor appetite, smoker, what's causing his fatigue?
This woman takes Premarin 0.625 milligrams for osteoporosis prophylaxis but she got sore breasts.  Is there a smaller size Premarin like 0.3 milligrams?
Why is she hypoglycemic?  No history of diabetes.  She tests her sugars at home and they are 50 to 60.
What agent should I use next in this hypertensive patient?  78-year-old woman with blood pressure 210/110.  She's on Univasc and Toprol XL 100.  She has a history of an angiotensin-converting-enzyme-inhibitor (ACEI) cough and palpitations on Procardia.
What is causing her back pain?
What asthma inhaler is blue and white?
What is "henox premer"?  What is the name of that disease?  This is the closest the patient could come to the pronunciation. (Turned out to be Henoch-Schoenlein Purpura.)
A little old lady Vitamin A user.  She had some skin problems 3 months ago and self-medicated with Vitamin A, 2 tablets per day which is 8000 units per day.  Is that enough to give you toxicity?
Knee injury, slight swelling, no erythema, most likely a sprain, 2 days out from injury, 95% to 98% chance it will be normal but the question is . . . medicolegally you have to do it (x-ray) because it was an injury, but it's almost surely normal and you hate to have that expense.
She is having irregular bleeding.  Which birth control pill should I switch to?
What is the efficacy of scheduling ear rechecks in kids with otitis media and what should be the timing of doing it?  Is it really necessary to see them back?  If they have persistent fluid at 3 weeks, do they need antibiotics again or just observe?
Should she be started on hormone replacement?  She's 71 so is it too late to benefit her?  I'm doing it due to coronary disease risk factors.  I've heard that after 75 it doesn't do much good but at least we'll get 4-5 years.
Is her fatigue from anemia?
Is his discomfort only due to a urinary infection and should he have x-rays?  Could the diverticulitis be irritating the bladder?  He has a history of diverticulitis also.
This mother and son are both sick, probably with the same bug.  Why is one coughing and the other has a runny nose?
How often should I be seeing this patient with hypertension and hyperlipidemia?
This female patient was treated with Bactrim for a urinary tract infection but her culture grew Escherichia coli resistant to Bactrim.  She got better on 10 days of Cipro but still has trace hemoglobin, no red blood cells, occasional pressure, so I kept her on the Cipro.  When should I discontinue the Cipro?
Patient has been on Estraderm patch and cyclic Progesterone and was changed to PremPro today.  Patient asked how long she will continue to have periods or spotting after the medication change.  Dr. X wasn't sure -- told her maybe up to 6 months.
Mother of this patient has tennis elbow (lateral epicondylitis).  Which muscles insert into the lateral epicondyle?
I pushed on the aorta and it hurt in this young thin female.  Should I do an ultrasound to rule out an abdominal aortic aneurysm?  Must be very rare in young female but should I?  Should you have pain when you push on the aorta?
Phone call to office from parent of child who was bitten by a mouse (barely broke the skin).  Parents thought mouse looked sick, probably ate rat poison.  Question:  Does anything need to be done to follow-up?
What is causing his fatigue?  Long lasting viral entity?  Not sure of diagnosis.  Differential diagnosis includes viral illness, arthritis.
A patient Dr. X saw the day before (7/30/96) said his friend told him that Plendil can react negatively if the patient is exposed to the sun.  Is that true?
What is causing her intermittent dysuria?
Is Sudafed a problem with breast feeding?
What is the dose of Levsin drops for a 30-pound child?
How much vomiting is normal in an infant (for example, reflux) and how much should make you think of pyloric stenosis?
How to sort this out?  Complaining of right arm pain and numbness - Is it the zoster scarring or is he developing carpal tunnel syndrome?  Also he is diabetic and lipids are elevated so that could also be a factor.
What size package does Compazine come in?
She is behind size-wise, always 4 cm behind.  She refuses ultrasound due to her religion (Amish).  When do I get worried?  When do I start doing nonstress tests?  When do I consider induction?
She needs an antihistamine-decongestant.  I'd like to give her a nonsedating antihistamine but Title XIX says you have to try a cheap sedating one first.  Which one will they pay for?
Why is he falling asleep in school?  Apparently he is fine on weekends and in the evening.
How many times do the real doctors at the U just treat with antibiotics rather than getting a streptococcal test?
Is it worth it to get a cholesterol on an 82-year-old man?  (Total cholesterol approximately 220, low-density lipoprotein (LDL-cholesterol) approximately 160.)
Patient is hypertensive and is on Premarin.  The question is, how can you tell if elevated blood pressure is exacerbated by the Premarin, other than by stopping the Premarin?  If Premarin is contributing to the elevated blood pressure, should you try to control the blood pressure with medication and keep the patient on Premarin because of the many benefits of estrogen?
How should I treat polymenorrhea in a 14-year-old girl?
Patient fell asleep while driving and woke up in a ditch.  Did not feel sleepy before episode.  Electroencephalogram normal.  Should she be referred for a full sleep study to look for sleep apnea?
What do you say the risk of a heart attack is from calcium channel blockers to a man who is perfectly well controlled on verapamil and his mother wants him to change?
What is the dose of oral Lamisil?
Can we use Energix for all 5 doses of DPT (diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus vaccine)?
Is it really Benadryl that's in Tylenol PM?  I just didn't want her taking that with all her muscle relaxants.
What is the effect of Relafen on this patient who is on Coumadin for atrial fibrillation (also has congestive heart failure, arthritis)?
45-year-old woman with dysfunctional uterine bleeding.  What is the treatment?  I already tried Provera 10 milligrams every day.
What is the drug Zyprexa?  The patient brought it in with him and said his psychiatrist had put him on it (not in a prescription bottle, but a sample drug bottle).
What is the strength of Atrovent nasal spray and can you use it for allergy symptoms as well as the common cold?
When should I use DDAVP (desmopressin) for enuresis?
Is Lipitor cheaper than Pravachol?  More generally, do you stick with drugs with proven efficacy, or do you go with similar but cheaper drugs?
What do you do with isolated hypertriglyceridemia (triglycerides = 271)?  Not high enough to cause pancreatitis but high.
What are the various strengths of Synthroid and what is appropriate for this patient?
How long do subconjunctival hemorrhages last?
Dr. X knows that if a postmenopausal woman is on estrogen for only a few years, she gets a continued protective effect against osteoporosis.  Is that protective effect also ongoing with only a few years of estrogen therapy in the case of heart disease?
What is the prep (preparation) for a gallbladder ultrasound?
This is a little old lady with diverticulitis and diarrhea, acutely ill.  She had hirsutism as a teenager and they irradiated her adrenals.  Do I need to cover her with steroids?
I think it's a basal cell carcinoma.  If I treated her with liquid nitrogen, would I be just as far ahead as referring her to a dermatologist for excision?
What are the indications for getting a digoxin level?
Is it okay to give antibiotics with Phentermine?
Patient didn't tell Dr. X she was breastfeeding and he ordered Tagamet -- when she went to pharmacy, pharmacist and patient decided best not to use it.  Dr. X questioned whether it's okay to use Tagamet while breastfeeding.
What is the cause of her sciatic nerve damage?  Inflammatory?  Mechanical?  (Rheumatologist didn't really check mechanical.)
Can Seldane and Zithromax be used together?  Patient phone in -- nurses discussed this with Dr. X -- he did not see patient today.  Saw her earlier in the week.  They did order Cefotan however -- he wasn't sure about Zithromax at first.
How often should she have a colonoscopy?  Last one was one year ago and she has a history of colon cancer.
The podiatrist doesn't know what he's got on his foot either.  It's either a wart or a corn.  It's a hyperkeratotic lesion with scaling and desquamation around it.
How should I workup this baby with a single umbilical artery?  Thirty percent of such babies have anomalies but where should I look if not obvious on physical exam?
How old is it still safe to give a woman birth control pills?
Why does this lady get so short of breath even though her pulmonary function tests are normal?  I really think she has asthma with normal pulmonary function tests.  How do I investigate further?
What are the interactions of the new antidepressant Remeron with other gastrointestinal and migraine drugs patient is taking for Crohn's and migraine (Midrin, Fiorinal, Zantac)?
What is Betamol eye drops?
Dose of Accupril increased from 20 to 40 and now she is coughing.  Is this due to the medication?
This obstetric patient needs to go back on her antidepressant but which one is safe?
Patient complaining of legs being weak and she fell.  Could Diovan (valsartan) do this?
Status post recent coronary angioplasty.  If he can bring his lipids into order with diet alone, is that satisfactory or based on the evidence, should he be started right off on the lipid drugs?
What is the dose of Reglan?
Second infectious-mononucleosis test today negative.  Question is are we all using the same mononucleosis test (Private lab X, hospital lab, this office)?  He feels there about 25% false positives (sic, meant negatives) with this test.
Patient called in.  He is going to Peru and needs malarial prophylaxis.  Is malarial prophylaxis needed for Peru and if so what drug is needed?
Phone call from nursing home about a pin-point rash.  Several other patients there have a similar looking rash but patient is just finishing a course of Augmentin.  Is it the environmental rash at the nursing home or is it the Augmentin?
An adult female seen yesterday is going on a cruise and wanted to know if there was a shot for motion sickness that lasts two weeks.  Is there a shot for motion sickness that lasts two weeks?
She discussed patient with her nurse.  Patient is losing weight.  Question is whether this is a side effect of antidepressants (didn't get which antidepressant she's on).
Can Zoloft truly cause chest pain?  She looked it up in a reference and it was listed as a side effect but can it truly do it?
Are there studies to show if passage of mucous plug in pregnancy is predictive of how soon the patient will deliver?
I would like him to stop working but he can't because he just started a new job.  What to do?
What anti-inflammatory can I give this patient?  She can't swallow pills.  She needs to crush and dissolve it and put milk on it.  Can I use Naprosyn EC (enteric coated)?
I wanted to prescribe Lotrimin 1%.  The pharmacist said "Do you mean 2%," implying that's the only strength it came in.  I thought it came in 1% but I had to look it up to be sure.
Earlier had been seen for vaginal bleeding.  Ultrasound now shows 14-week viable fetus with adjacent blood clot the size of the fetus.  Hemoglobin 10 so probably had a significant bleed.  What is the most appropriate way to treat a pregnancy with a viable fetus?
Is the shortness of breath physiologic or due to anxiety? (history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, congestive heart failure)
Patient goals were no menopausal symptoms and no menses.  Question is what is an acceptable way to achieve these goals?  Currently on hormone replacement therapy - both estrogen and progesterone, cyclic, but she doesn't like having the periods.
76-year-old woman with dyspnea for 3 to 4 days.  History of congestive heart failure.  On digoxin and Accupril.  Lungs clear.  Is there something else going on besides congestive heart failure?
In a patient with a history of rheumatic fever, do you need to use subacute bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis for pilonidal cyst excision?
20-year-old woman wanted to know what her weight should be.  I remember she was 20 pounds overweight and was 5 feet 9 inches tall.
80-year-old female.  Why is she losing weight?  Has well-controlled congestive heart failure.  Patient says she isn't eating well and dentures don't fit well.  Dr. X ordered thyroid stimulating hormone -- says he does it routinely.  Dental appointment.
This morning I saw a premature infant born at 27-weeks gestation, 3 months ago.  The discharge instructions said continue oral iron until the hemoglobin is "nice."  What hemoglobin should we use to decide when to stop iron?  How to consider this 3-month-old who is just now at his due date?  Not directly answered but a reference said 12 grams normal for 3 month old so I used that.  I almost called someone, but didn't have time so just decided 12 would be good enough.
Is her illness due to a virus or allergies?
Are there any rules for when to get a chest x-ray to rule out pneumonia, like the Ottawa ankle rules?  This patient has a cough and pleuritic pain, smoker, upper airway and bronchial sounds.
55-year-old woman.  This lady has epigastric pain and gallbladder symptoms.  How do you assess her gallbladder function when you don't see stones on the ultrasound?  Can a nonfunctioning gallbladder cause symptoms or do you only get symptoms if you have stones?
For cost effectiveness will it be best to change patient to verapamil sustained release from Tiazac?
Multiple small ulcers on ankles and buttocks.  No history of bites.  I sent him for a complete blood count (CBC) and blood sugar but I don't know what these are.
Complains of  fever 101, burns on inside or ears and throat, ears normal, throat red.  What is it?  I'm going to look up infectious mononucleosis symptoms.
Lymph nodes -- when do you refer and when do you just watch?
What is the best treatment for a callus?  What should be the frequency of paring?  I put on a donut pad, will that help prevent it?
Woman with polycythemia vera, feels well except for itching, tearing herself apart.  The itching is part of her disease but how do you treat it?
This patient had a nonstress test one week ago and at the end of every acceleration there was a brief sharp spike not very deep deceleration.  Is this important?
What are the doses of Solumedrol and Claforan for an 8-year-old female?
Which guidelines do you follow regarding frequency of flexible sigmoidoscopies?  Cancer society, Medicare, health maintenance organization's (HMO's), et cetera vary with their recommendations.  Dr. X feels there should be uniform guidelines.
No known trauma to shoulder.  The question is whether there is any kind of deformity or calcification.
Physician's assistant saw patient for preoperative physical (hernia) and he was on aspirin.  Question:  What is the appropriate time to stop aspirin prior to surgery?
What is the drug of choice for epididymitis?
What is the dose of Levsin?
How should I treat her traumatic alopecia?  Nothing has worked.  Does she have herpes zoster in her scalp?
What is the cause of this recurrent rash?  This patient wants a "cure" for it.
What is the appropriate dose of Pediapred for this patient?
What are the benefits and risks of treating subclinical hypothyroidism?
41-year-old woman with upper respiratory infection.  She's pretty good size.  The question is, "Should I give 500 milligrams or 250 milligrams of Amoxicillin?"  I had to give that some thought.
The same man has a son with Gaucher's disease and he gets transfusions once a month.  Is Gaucher's a form of anemia?  I'd have to look it up.
Why is there an increasing incidence of asthma, just in general?
He has sleep apnea.  They recommended using a continuous-positive-airway-pressure (CPAP) mask but before I noticed that, the question came to mind, how should I treat his sleep apnea?  Continuous-positive-airway-pressure?
This child has been having frequent Group A streptococcal infections.  What is the efficacy of culturing everyone in the family and how should you manage this situation?
Is there any good reason for treating onychomycosis?  It's a lot of money for a cosmetic problem.
How soon should you ambulate a patient with a deep vein thrombosis?
What should I do with this organic-personality-disorder patient with a subtherapeutic Depakote level but who is clinically stable?
What is Legatrin?
This child has a lead level of 11.  What is the danger level of blood lead levels?
What is the appropriate dose of Zithromax?
What should you do with someone who is not getting better from epicondylitis after physical therapy and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have not worked?
What is causing her recurrent hives?
Patient with history of 1 week of treatment for addiction.  Patient says her counselor told her Buspar is not addictive.  Is that correct?
Would Vitamin B12 help this patient feel better (on chemotherapy for breast cancer)?
What is the maximum dose of Dynacirc?
What is the significance of Haemophilus Aegypticus on an eye culture in a neonate with conjunctivitis?
How do I combine antidepressant drugs in terms of dosage adjustment?  This patient is on amitriptyline and Paxil.  How high can I push the dose on each and is the usual upper limit of one affected by the other antidepressant?
What are the new recommendations for unexplained infertility?
What kind of cardiac evaluation can you do in someone like this status post coronary artery bypass graft with terrible lungs who cannot do a regular treadmill?
What is the dose of Tapazole?  This patient has a history of hyperthyroidism with Graves disease and hadn't taken anything for awhile.  Thyroid level is elevated.
What is the over-the-counter cream she is using for her intertrigo?  Sounds like "Tofenate."
Patient in correctional institution (also alcohol treatment facility) with positive Mantoux and negative chest x-ray.  Does he need isoniazid and what is the procedure to report this?
Nurse reported test results to Dr. X.  Ova and parasites negative, no normal bowel flora.  What does "no normal bowel flora" mean?
History of at least 2 urinary tract infection's which have responded to treatment, urine clear in between.  Now she's having incontinence.  What is causing her incontinence?  She actually came in for osteopathic manipulation of her neck.
I'll try this patient on Niacin and LoCholest (cholestyramine resine).  I'm sure there are no contraindications or interactions -- I just don't know if it will be effective.
Where do you find articles on tinnitus?  Dr. X discussed referral but feels probably no one does anything to treat it and there are many people who have it.
Is there any sense giving Diflucan to a nursing home patient with suspected esophageal and oral candida without knowing for sure if that's what it is?
What's the best time to get an obstetric ultrasound for dating and also to see other things like the placenta?  Some say 13 to 15 weeks.  Some say to get one early and late.
He has a mole on his back.  Is it a seborrheic keratosis or an intradermal nevus?
This patient got influenza even though she had the influenza shot.  But she got one of the bad lot numbers (too weak).  What should we do about that?  Reimbursement?  Should we repeat the vaccine in all patients who got that lot number?
How do I get a new obstetric patient to quit smoking other than brow beating?
I wonder if this patient could have a rotator cuff thing?
What is the bulletin for patients with Crohn's disease and how do you get a patient on the mailing list for this?
Do I gain anything with Bactrim over amoxicillin in terms of coverage?  He was on amoxicillin a month ago and now has a second episode of otitis media.  Should I be using a second line agent (for example, Augmentin) or does Bactrim have increased coverage over amoxicillin?
Is the most common organism causing the syndrome of otitis media and conjunctivitis Haemophilus?
Hemoglobin approximately 4.0, white blood count 3000. History of dementia.  What's causing her bone marrow to be knocked out?  Is it related to her dementia?  Also occult blood in stool.  Should I put her through a gastrointestinal workup?
Will the fumes created by taking off a basal cell carcinoma with cautery affect the physician taking it off?
Saw patient last week. 43-year-old obese male with growths (skin tags) on inside of thighs -- has had for some years but have become more uncomfortable.  Dr. X removed a couple of them.  What is the best way to remove these fibroepithelial skin tags?
14-year-old male with influenza.  What is the dose of amantadine?
Patient with torn cartilage.  Can any of these medications cause her glucose to go up (blood sugar approximately 300 on preoperative laboratory tests)? (Vasotec, Ultram, Prozac, Dicyclomine, Ambien, Tylenol)
Since these boys' father has Marfan's Syndrome, do these boys need further evaluation?
Can you use Prozac along with lithium?
History of cancer of the colon 20 years ago at age 70 when cause of anemia was followed up.  Her hemoglobin still falls but he doesn't think she has any more cancer.  She takes iron supplements daily.  Question is what causes hemoglobin to fall?  Hemoglobin today 10.5 (lower).
Can Ultram cause edema or constipation?
17-month-old male with pharyngitis, home from hospital and noted on Thanksgiving Day that 8 to 10 hours after starting steroids, he had noted an increased appetite.  Question is do steroids increase appetite that quickly?
What are the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) criteria for using liquid nitrogen (that is, protection by gloves, et cetera)?
27-year-old female.  Patient called in and nurse discussed her with her doctor.  He didn't see the patient.  Today he ordered Levsin -- told nurse he didn't know the strength but give plain tablets and call in order to pharmacist.
16-year-old girl, mildly overweight with irregular periods.  Is it worth working up?
She is on the pill and has not had menses.  She is 3 days into this pack.  She wants Depo-Provera.  When can you start Depo-Provera?  The rule is to give Depo-Provera within 5 days of the period and she is not technically within 5 days of her period onset.
This patient was in the hospital with third-degree heart block documented in the clinic but never occurred in the hospital.  Discharged after stopping digoxin.  Had another episode of similar symptoms 2 days ago.  Does she need a pacemaker?
How much estrogen can a woman be on without being too much?
Woman fractured her humerus. Has a history of desmoid tumors. What are desmoid tumors?
Patient in nursing home with Parkinson's.  How to make him more alert at breakfast?  His manner was much different this morning  -- usually asking to go home, today just stiff and not talking.  May be due to seeing him at different times.
What is the proper dose of Zithromax for this child?
A diabetic on insulin.  Will these new medications (Glucophage, acarbose) allow me to get off insulin?  Physician did not know answer.
Nicorette gum.  What is the dose?
Do the side effects of Zocor include liver disease?
How do you help an overweight patient with degenerative joint disease to lose weight so his degenerative joint disease will get better?
Ovarian stromal cyst removed by gynecologist.  They found, at that time, a "streak" ovary.  What is the etiology and embryonic development associated with this condition?
Should I do a streptococcal screen or just call it a virus?  I was real certain it was a virus.  But there were other circumstances.  The patient thought she had streptococcus so I got it.
Patient has nausea after meals.  Does she have diabetic gastroparesis or gastritis?
I can't think of the name of that cream that's better than Retin-A for acne.
What's the dose of Tenuate and do they still make it?  Patient interested.  But Dr. X decided to use fenfluramine-phentermine anyway.
What is the best interval to repeat thyroid tests on someone who is on thyroid replacement and how soon after I change the dose should I check the level?
Can dizziness and tingling be a side effect of Premarin vaginal cream?  Patient called in with this question.  Had presented earlier with these symptoms and today found the Premarin and remembered she had used it the night before these symptoms occurred.
What is the right interval for checking the thyroid stimulating hormone level on patients on thyroid replacement, and if you make a change in dose, when should you check the thyroid stimulating hormone?
Patient wanted to know if she will make it worse by using the hand and what is causing this prolonged pain?  Dr. X said the exam was normal and he couldn't answer these questions so a referral to an orthopedic hand specialist will be made.
Should I do streptococcal tests or am I wasting money to do them on a 3 1/2-year-old?  There is time when children never get streptococcus and when is the cross over to when they are susceptible to streptococcus?
What are various methods of bracing for various injuries?  This woman has had back pain radiating to her leg.  Physical therapist thought that favoring one leg aggravated the other.
What cough suppressant contains dextromethorphan but is prescription and is covered by Title XIX?
He has decreased air entry on the left.  Is he in more failure?
Will the urine still be good for culture if it sits overnight in the refrigerator before going to the reference laboratory?
Can a flare up of her pancreatitis cause relative sugar intolerance or do you think this could be the beginning of her needing insulin all the time (fasting blood sugar = approximately 240, two-hour post prandial = approximately 260)?
Are there better materials on natural family planning than what I have?
What percentage of patients gain a lot of weight on Depo-Provera?
What antibiotic should I use for this diabetic patient's infected foot ulcer?
Two days ago she had unprotected sex.  She is 6 weeks postpartum.  Is it okay to give Provera?
What are these cells that I am seeing under the microscope on this urine sediment?
What is Dynabac (dirithromycin)?  What bacteria does it cover?  What are the indications for use?  Should you take it with food?  What is the dose?
What organisms can cause pelvic inflammatory disease if you don't think it's sexually transmitted?
What percentage of 3-year-olds toe in?  Family history in both parents, mother wore corrective shoes.
Does Augmentin come in a chewable form?
Saw this patient last week with headache and tender temporal artery.  Referred to ophthalmologist.  Sedimentation rate "elevated."  History of daughter having Bell's Palsy.  Is there an association between Bell's Palsy and headache and temporal artery tenderness?  Does Bell's Palsy cause an increased sedimentation rate?  Is Bell's Palsy familial?
What is the dose of Claritin?
How many nicotine patches are over-the-counter?  Is it just Habitrol? or just Nicotrol?  I didn't know if they were all over-the-counter or not?
Does this patient with a 3-week-old fracture of the distal head of the fifth metatarsal need any treatment?
Woman thought to be 4 weeks gestation having bright red vaginal bleeding, gravida 3 para 0.  Question:  Is she having a miscarriage and what steps should be taken?
What do you do with a lead level of 10 in an 11 month old which is borderline high?  What is the management besides getting them out of the spot?
Immunocompromised woman with yeast vaginitis now at tertiary center.  Phone call from allergy fellow.  "Is itraconazole an oral tablet?  How is that given?
What is a nerve sparing prostatectomy?
How can I get her to be compliant with exercise and a diabetic diet?
Patient has an ulcerated rash on his side.  Has had the rash for many years.  What is it?
Nonunion of Jones fracture.  Should you operate?
Had an out-of-town patient with kidney stone and blood in the urine.  Typical drug abuse story.  But microscopic exam showed red blood cells in all stages of crenation, suggesting on going rather than factitious bleed.  True?
How little can I do in a patient like this who comes in so often?  I can't blow things off too quickly even when they probably should be blown off.
Is Zoloft 100 milligrams scored?
What is causing his dizzy spells?
Will the birth of twins at 37 weeks mean she will deliver earlier this time even though she now has a singleton?
What are the basic principles of chiropractic?  I know I've never seen this in a textbook and I have so many patients that go to chiropractors, it would be good to know more about this subject.
What is the best GI (gastrointestinal) cocktail to give and the necessary proportions and dosage?
After starting treatment for a step throat, how long does the patient need to stay out of work or school?
In this patient with TIAs (transient ischemic attacks) and no cardiac murmur, should I do an echocardiogram anyway?
Unusual presentation - patient has swelling (lymphoid tissue at base of tongue).  Is this normal or should I be concerned about a tumor, et cetera?
Why are his platelets so low?  27 is the lowest they have been.  No petechiae or signs of bleeding noted.
What is this rash in the axilla?  It is probably eczema but could also be fungal.
How representative is an oral prednisone challenge?  Is that a decent way to diagnose cough variant asthma, realizing it's not a methacholine challenge test?  How often do I really treat allergic rhinitis?
This woman called about her husband who was seen in the emergency room because of confusion and dementia.  Should I get a head computerized tomography (CT) now since he is improving, or wait and run the risk of missing a brain tumor?
What is the dose of Pediazole?
9-year-old girl with third urinary tract infection.  I know I need a voiding cysto-urethrogram, but is an ultrasound enough or do I need an intravenous pyelogram?
The child received an injection of Phenergan for nausea and vomiting -- 25 milligrams.  Question asked of Dr. X's nurse was what size and concentration do the vials come in?  She just double checked this so she would know the amount (in cubic centimeter's) of the injection.
How to get this patient to follow through on needed colonoscopy (has had rectal bleeding and colonoscopy was recommended by gastroenterologist in 1995)?
How much should I be pushing hepatitis vaccine and chickenpox vaccine since they're optional?
What do you do when someone has no insurance and has almost no money to buy Chemstrips?
46-year-old right-handed man seen this morning with clumsy left arm and leg without weakness.  Where would you go to look into this; that is, how would you work him up?
A Henoch-Schoenlein-purpura patient.  What's the source of the hemorrhage?  Low platelets?  Vasculitis?
What should I do with this antinuclear antibody test (ANA) of 1:40 (normal <1:40) that one of my colleagues ordered?  What is the significance of an ANA of 1:40?
When does the incidence of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) go down (at what age)?  I have a mother who is just paranoid.  She has the monitor turned up so loud she can hear the baby breathing.  Obviously she's not getting good sleep.
19-year-old female with severe cerebral palsy with history of cytomegalovirus (CMV) many years ago.  Question is whether it is safe for others to care for her.  Had note on his desk from phone call.
What is the name of that eye drop that just stops itching but doesn't do anything for the allergy?
How often should he have an ultrasound or computerized tomography (CT) to follow his thoracic aortic aneurysm?  Should I be doing one every time he has chest pain?
This 52-year-old woman had a sister who died at age 34 of breast cancer.  This patient is now menopausal.  Should she be on hormone replacement therapy?
Regarding doxycycline which was prescribed for patient, what are the limits on drinking milk products?  (Must you abstain from milk products during the entire treatment period or just not take the medicine with milk products?)
This patient has a history of bleeding ulcer, can we give him heparin for his suspected acute myocardial infarction?
Could I have used a low-dose birth control pill instead of doubling the dose of Premarin?  I've heard you can do that.  She's doing better on the higher dose of Premarin.
At the age of 90, does the risk of bleeding from a daily aspirin outweigh the benefits?
What's the name of the fracture when you pull off a piece of bone with the ligament?
How do you diagnose sinus infection?  Does a green discharge mean sinus infection?  When do you really have a sinus infection versus just a viral upper respiratory infection?
In geriatric patients, how long should you treat depression with medication?  Are there other characteristics other than a reoccurrence that would make you put the patient on a maintenance dose or is there a way to avoid the reoccurrence in the first place?
Teenage girl last week, following her for several months with recurrent blotchy rash.  Got better with lotrisone and then hydrocortisone but keeps recurring.  What is the differential diagnosis of this rash?
Patient had synovitis of thumb (with stenosing).  He questioned in his mind how to treat.  He may refer to orthopedic physician later if symptoms persist.
What should I do now with this new atrial fibrillation?
Thirty-year-old female with psoriasis.  What is the name of the drug for treatment?  He says he always has trouble remembering the name of the drug.
I had an alcoholic in the hospital last week for treatment for withdrawal and the question was, "What day do the seizures usually come?"
What's the best way to treat diaper rash when it's not responding to silvadene and ketoconazole?
I don't know why she passed out but it's probably a combination of upper respiratory infection, taking two decongestant-antihistamine combinations, donating blood recently, et cetera.
This was Dr. X's partner's patient seen yesterday so he doesn't know name, age, et cetera, but he helped look up information.  What is the reason for the inverted p waves on electrocardiogram?
How do you deal with a palpable thyroid nodule?  What's the workup and treatment?
82-year-old complaining of vertigo when up walking around, not when sitting.  How can I make the world stop spinning for him?  What is the source or cause of his vertigo?
Are her headaches related to her elevated diastolic blood pressures?  She has a booming headache today and her blood pressure is 180/96.
Insulin dependent diabetes, follow-up hospitalization for skin graft for necrotizing fasciitis of calf.  Has areas on graft that "almost look like boils."  I'm not sure what this recurrent skin problem is.
Left posterior knee pain, history of Baker's cyst.  Question is that Dr. X has "slight doubt" about whether the pain can all be attributed to the Baker's cyst.
Patient with a one-year history of infertility now has a miscarriage. Should an infertility workup be done?
How do you screen for homocysteinemia?  Dr. X knows it is a risk factor for heart disease but treatment is probably folic acid which is pennies per day so should you spend the money to screen for it?
Patient going to Viet Nam.  What immunizations are needed?
What should I use for atopic dermatitis?
What should we do with this chronic migraine-type headache?  Doesn't have insurance so we can't do a million dollar workup.  Antidepressants didn't work.
You were going to do a rectal exam because of his high prostate specific antigen but would you do anything at age 78?
What is causing her to be nauseated?  (Persistent nausea and some diarrhea.)  Could her anesthesia have caused this? (Had total knee replacement 4 to 6 weeks ago).
What is the dose of Cefzil (cefprozil) for an 18-pound girl with otitis media?
What are the New York Heart Association classes I - IV?  Where is an explanation of these?
Is her head size normal for her age (mother asked)?
How much Dilantin should he take?  Dilantin level is approximately 2.5 and he started tapering it on his own against medical advice.
Is the maximum dose of Atarax 25 or 50 milligrams?
Patient was referred here by ENT (ear, nose, and throat physician) for pre-operative physical, for adenoidectomy tomorrow, has otitis media with effusion.  Why is he having only adenoidectomy rather than tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy and/or myringotomy?
Let's find out more about T'ai Chi (said to nurse).
For post viral cough, Dr. X usually prescribes a short term bronchodilator such as Proventil inhaler.  Are there data to support this treatment?
What is the cause of this rash?
Male college student adopted from Korea.  Tuberculin Tine negative at the time adopted, now has positive Mantoux on college physical examination.  Could he have gotten BCG (bacille Calmette-Guerin) vaccine?
Why do a bimanual exam when refilling oral contraceptives?  Oral contraceptives reduce the incidence of ovarian cysts, so why do it?
He's already on hydrocodone.  I prescribed a Duragesic patch.  The question is using narcotics for noncancer pain.  How legitimate is that?
Is an upset stomach a side effect of Glucotrol?  Dr. X said she hadn't seen that before.
Patient with chest wall pain.  I think it is costochondritis, but am not positive, slight doubt.
What is the percent of success with various methods of endometrial biopsy (that is, getting the instrument into the uterus); for example, Pipelle vs Novak curette?  Are there any predictive factors other than age that would predict not being able to pass the sound or Pipelle?
How much scoliosis is enough to pull the trigger and refer?  He had a hair of lumbar scoliosis, no thoracic scoliosis.  He was clearly under the line but where's the line?
50-year-old man with Paget's disease.  Should I treat medically?
How often should this patient need a pneumonia vaccine?  Her last one was in 1993.
In this patient with a pituitary adenoma, is estrogen safe to use?
Does imipramine come as a 25-milligram tablet?
Should we switch now to just Ancef?  Are you satisfied with the rate of improvement? (Orthopedist did not get culture, foot still red)
Patient with polycythemia vera seen this morning.  Brought in because incoherent, lethargic, uncoordinated, headache.  Could carbon monoxide poisoning do this?  (Had history consistent with recent carbon monoxide poisoning.)
What is the best way to treat this perianal dermatitis with probably both a yeast and bacterial component?  Already on medications for yeast.
In 40 to 50-year-old men with chest wall pain, how much workup is needed?  Is a treadmill necessary?  He knows there are many false positives with treadmills in women, but is that also the case in men?  This is a frequent question he has.
72-year-old female seen last Thursday for swollen lip and side of face, treated with ice and Benadryl and it went away in 24 hours.  Now returns - at noon today swelling recurred with tongue and gums now swollen.  What is causing the swelling?
Cephalexin did not work on his bronchitis.  What antibiotic should I use now?
She has an upper respiratory infection.  Is it viral or bacterial?
An adult diabetic with a fever for 4 days.  I don't know what's causing the fever.  I don't know if it's just viral or what.
Kindergarten physical.  7-8 red blood cells on urinalysis.  No protein, no illness.  How far do you pursue this?
What are the criteria for obsessive compulsive disorder in a male teenager (he's been doing a lot of handwashing and so on)?
This is a 7-year-old girl, mother calling regarding treatment for urinary tract infection, she weighs 57 pounds, what is the dose of Bactrim?
The husband of this patient asked me how to treat premature ejaculation and if there was any way to increase her libido.
A 70-year-old woman with a total cholesterol of approximately 230, low-density lipoprotein (LDL-cholesterol) approximately 180.  Should I worry about cholesterol in asymptomatic older patients?
What causes loss of the suprasternal notch?  She has no borders or definition to her suprasternal notch.  She noticed this 9 months ago.
What's causing her hypersensitive gag reflex (obstetric patient)?
Would it be better to put her on a potassium sparing diuretic or just potassium?
How do you set boundaries in a caring way with a manipulative patient?  That's something I've been struggling with.  I got where I didn't want to go into work because I knew her chart would be on my desk and I'd have to call her.
How long will a Monospot test stay positive?  This is an 18-year-old girl who had infectious mononucleosis a year ago with a sedimentation rate of approximately 50, now has a positive Monospot and sore throat and sedimentation rate of approximately 10.
What should I be doing every year for an annual physical exam in terms of testing?
How infrequently is it reasonable for this kid to see a neurologist without pushing me into that uncomfortable corner that I'm not comfortable with (managing four seizure medications)?
If mammograms are recommended every year after age 50, how come insurance only pays for one every other year?
He has a rash on his forearms.  Rashes are always a question to some extent in my experience.
What is this rash?  It's probably Rhus.  Could be cutaneous larva migrans but I don't think so.
Chief complaint:  abdominal pain.  Question:  Does she have partially treated diverticulitis or is the pain related to refluxing and hiatal hernia?
What is the dose of Imodium?
I can feel a pounding aorta in this 58-year-old man.  I'm not sure if it's normal.  How often does an abdominal aortic aneurysm occur in patients under 60?
What should you do for asymptomatic carotid bruits or bruits in general?  Folic acid?,  Vitamin B1?  Aspirin?
50-year-old female with bug bites, bra and panties area.  1 cm papules, straight forward bug bites.  What bug?  Also had a cough.  Is the cough related to the bug bites?
Had shoulder injury and after repaired was about to return to work but developed severe hives requiring steroids.  What caused the hives?  Was it angioedema due to being stressed about returning to work?
This patient has chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and essential tremor.  He wants a pulmonary consult but he's still smoking.  I am referring him at his request.  I have him on Inderal which helps his essential tremor a lot.  Should I keep him on this or take him off because of his chronic obstructive pulmonary disease?
Why did this patient have epigastric abdominal pain with her last pregnancy that was so severe?  She's spotting now with this pregnancy but the question relates to the last pregnancy.
What are the doses of long acting verapamil?  I know the short acting but the long acting is something like 80 or 120.
This patient found out about a drug called "coumarin" for chronic lymphedema on the World Wide Web (New England Journal of Medicine, Oct 14, 1993) and wants to know if it is safe.  Dr. X said she didn't know but would look into it.
Is she not sleeping well due to sleep apnea?
Is Prevacid 30 milligrams twice a day too high a dose?
In an anorexic, amenorrheic patient, now cycling on hormones, when or should you change or decrease her estrogen dose because she is perimenopausal and she shouldn't be on this dose of estrogen after menopause?
I don't have any questions about this patient other than the same question that any doctor would have about sinus disease.  I try to practice scientific medicine and not treat viral disease with antibiotics.  I do a lot of limited computerized tomography (CT) scans of the sinuses.
What is the maximum dose of Ritalin in an adult?
Patient has stomatitis (canker sores on roof of mouth)  Will treat with Zovirax.  The question is whether there is data to support this treatment.
Employment physical, history of depression, doing well.  Is there any sort of predictive data on an association between depression and safety and performance at work, on or off antidepressants?
Man seen 2 days ago for hypertension.  Needs more medications for hypertension.  Dr. X wants to add a diuretic.  Asked his nurse to find out how much diuretic is in Hyzaar which he is already on.
Patient with knee pain -- was kicked in the knee.  Knee has been injected and has been to physical therapy and seen specialist.  Her complaints seem to outweigh the physical findings.  There is workman's compensation involved here too.  Question is why is she having so much discomfort in this knee and is she possibly depressed?  Is there more going on here?  Local orthopedist didn't find much either.
Obese (360 pound) virginal female in for Papanicolaou smear.  Can't get good look at cervix because speculum can't be inserted properly.  What is the truly doing the right thing for her?  (1) using anesthesia to insert speculum and visualize properly or (2) hope that manual exam where not feeling any abnormalities is adequate.
At age 4 has had two simple bladder infections with no upper symptoms.  Question is should I just treat or do more evaluation of the cause?
German exchange student.  German physician said she needs another diphtheria-tetanus immunization.  But I looked at her records from Germany and she was fully immunized, just had one 2 months ago.  So what do you do?
What's the dose of Compazine suppositories?
How much of a workup should I do in view of his age (84) particularly since he's eating well?  He's lost approximately 10 pounds in the last 15 months.
Do salicylates cause the same concern about proteinuria as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs?  She had proteinuria in the past which we traced back to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
One of the strength coaches at the high school recommended oral supplements of creatine.  What is it?  I think it's just a protein supplement.
Patient has had a pacemaker for 5 years.  Seen for preoperative physical (cataracts).  Electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation.  Should I put her on Coumadin?
I'm looking up Prevacid to see how long you can use it.  It's like Prilosec which you can't use forever.
This patient has a blue lesion on her abdomen and I'm not sure what it is, so the question is, what is it?
Can Staphylococcus or Haemophilus influenza septicemia give the same clinical picture as streptococcal septicemia (fever, rash, joint pain, vomiting).
75-year-old woman, hemoglobin approximately 12.0, mean corpuscular volume approximately 90, vitamin B12 level approximately 180 (200-650 is normal), and then approximately 150, intrinsic factor blocking antibody negative.  "I'm just wondering what I should do?"
It seems like an inflammatory thing but I'm not sure what's going on (patient with elbow pain, can't straighten elbow).
Patient with hypertension but history of adrenal insufficiency.  Will I make her better or worse if I treat her hypertension?
How old do you have to be before you don't need to aggressively workup hypertension (240-260/90)?  This patient is 88.
What would cause coccyx pain with no history of injury?  X-ray last time showed coccyx deviated to left.
This woman has Herpes zoster on her chest.  Which dermatome is it?
What about labile hypertension -- when do you treat it and when don't you?
What is causing the heel pain?
17-year-old boy with "documented" micturition syncope.  Heart rate 40 when seen.  But I'm not sure I'm satisfied with that diagnosis.  He had a normal thyroid stimulating hormone but I'm going to get a free thyroxine (Free T4).  The question is, was this micturition syncope?
The infant's eyes are red but is it viral or bacterial and how important is it to know as it will probably run its course?
What is the maximum dose of digoxin? (patient seen in emergency room had digoxin level less than 0.03)
This patient needs to make life style changes and has the information.  How do you motivate someone to make these changes?  She comes in and cries but doesn't follow through on getting blood tests done, et cetera.
Are there specific key indicators to use as a requirement for making a change in a patient's environment or living condition?
Redness and lump right breast -- treated for mastitis with antibiotics and discharge sent to pathology and non malignant report.  Question is, is there an underlying malignancy and how long do we wait after antibiotic treatment as this is a fairly large lump.
This patient had a congested feeling in his ears.  His exam was normal.  What was causing the congested feeling?
One question I always have is what criteria do I use to decide when to stop a chronic medication.  We have lots of criteria for starting drugs but very few for stopping them.
Should I continue the Prilosec?  Mentally retarded patient with peptic ulcer disease and Helicobacter pylori positive.  Every time we stop Prilosec he quits eating and drops 20 pounds but Title XIX does not want to keep him on it.  Should we try again to stop it?
Is there a review or an answer to whether patients with osteoporosis should get bone densitometry, because now we have Fosamax?
What is the dose of Zovirax for oral herpes?
This patient complains that normal sounds sound too loud.  What should I do about that?
What is the dose of Premarin vaginal cream?
Patient is reluctant to take medications so I have been treating with smaller doses than I would with some other patients.  How do I control her hypertension and still get her cooperation?
8-year-old male patient.  Question was the dose of erythromycin for a pediatric patient.
Patient had a tubal ligation and now her menstrual cramps are worse.  Why would menstrual cramps be worse after a tubal ligation?  She asked Dr. X this question.
She has chronic nonspecific pain in her legs.  I think it's arthritis but I wonder if it could be something else.  Vascular or other cause?
I tend not to believe drug representatives, but are there real differences in the gastrointestinal side effects among various nonsteroidals?  (Said this while pulling samples of Relafen off the shelf to give to patient.)
5-week-old born at 32 weeks gestation, grunting at 4 weeks, asked pediatrician then, he said okay, not to worry.  Now more tachypnea and tachycardia, less grunting.  What is the cause?
What is causing this groin pain?  Adductor tendinitis?  Is it a defined entity and what to do about it?
Would her uterus be larger this time at 12 weeks than it normally would since she had twins last time?
Why is her ferritin high and why is she anemic (Hemoglobin 11.0, Ferritin high at 292, total iron binding capacity normal)?
This is the 64-thousand-dollar question.  When do you refer a patient with head trauma for a computerized tomography (CT)?  99 out of 100 will be okay but I remember a couple of horror stories.
A 40 year-old woman with left chest pain, tender 4th rib, lungs clear, heart normal, psychiatric overlay, suspect intercostal neuritis.  How far do you go with a workup for chest pain?  Attempting to keep costs down.
15-year-old boy with vomiting and diarrhea.  He has a gastroenteritis but is it from food poisoning or a virus?
What is good treatment for aphthous ulcers in the mouth?
This is a dilemma.  I'm seeing a lot of women who have an abnormal Papanicolaou smear (ASCUS -- Atypical Squamous Cells of Uncertain Significance) that I THINK is just due to lack of estrogen.  I suspect this is the cause in many cases, but I have to follow up and tell the woman her Papanicolaou smear is abnormal and they get anxious.
The patient's appointment was for "back hurt" but also has a history of chest pain, angina, diabetes, hypertension, coronary heart disease.  Question is how much do I have to workup today?  He has a nagging concern about this with this type of patient.
How long should this patient be kept on Floxin?  Has a history of two previous bouts of cystitis.
She dropped a tractor weight on her toes.  4th toe red and infected.  She is pregnant.  Is it safe to use Ceftin during pregnancy?
Woman in early 30's with chest pain. I know in my gut she doesn't have heart disease, but I had a woman in her 20's who died of a myocardial infarction.  How far do you go with the workup?  Doctors practice medicine according to their last disaster.
Dr. X received consult report from neurologist at tertiary center X regarding patient's possible tendinitis but letter somewhat unclear so he telephoned this physician for an interpretation.  Does she have tendinitis?
What is a good source to use for teaching residents how to repair 4th degree lacerations?
This patient had a shoulder deformity that is congenital and patient did not know the name of it, neither did Dr. X.  What is the name of this deformity?
What is the best treatment of hypercholesterolemia?  The patient is already on two drugs.
What is the diagnosis for this rash that looks like impetigo, comes every April and May?
81-year-old man with terrible kidneys (renal failure), colon cancer, iron infusion brought hemoglobin from approximately 7.0 to 8.0, yesterday reticulocyte count approximately 4.0%.  Is this from blood loss or kidney failure?
A 45-year-old male came to office earlier (a few days ago) and said he wonders if dialysis could cause his headaches to get worse  -- they seem worse after dialysis.  Question is whether the dialysis procedure could accelerate the headaches?
How do you treat a base of the 5th metatarsal fracture?  Is a cast needed?
Is there anything that can be done one week out to prevent postherpetic neuralgia?
In a patient with acute pancreatitis, after it has resolved, do you always need to x-ray the stomach?  I always do both the gall bladder and the stomach but do you always need to x-ray the stomach?
Why does this patient have hair loss?
What should I do with this abnormal distal femur on x-ray (from an old fracture complicated by osteomyelitis)?
Is there any support group in this town for this patient who is going blind from macular degeneration?
Why is this patient still having discomfort in multiple areas?  History of motor vehicle accident a couple of months ago, has seen orthopedist, and tests have been negative.  I discovered a bone scan has not been done.
How long do you have to wait between chicken pox immunization and others?
Episodes of night time crying -- wakes up after she's been asleep awhile.  Is she having night terrors?  Doesn't want to play when she wakes up like when she was younger.  Wakes at 10 PM or midnight.
Patient having employment physical to become a nurse's aide and there was a question about her mental health on the form.  Is it appropriate or even legal to note her history of manic depression on this form as patient preferred it not be noted?
Is there a particular age at which you would stop treating hypercholesterolemia or an age that you would not start treatment?
Would melatonin be indicated for insomnia?
How old can you see mycoplasma as a common respiratory pathogen?  Am I thinking appropriately when I say she might have mycoplasma?
A woman I saw last week has an abdominal aortic aneurysm (three and a half centimeters) and diverticulitis.  She comes in with abdominal pain periodically.  Is the abdominal pain her diverticulitis or her abdominal aortic aneurysm?
Morbidly obese (388 pounds).  Eats a lot.  Had a piece of pie before clinic visit so can't have blood work today.   Is there something about the patient's sugar that makes him eat so much and is this (overeating) typical of other or all overweight people?
How should I treat this patient with seizures?
The patient says she can't use inhalers because they upset her stomach.  I never heard of that.  Why would an inhaler upset her stomach?
What is the common serum marker for ovarian cancer?  I want to say carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) but that's for colon cancer.  I just don't remember.
Elderly patient in care center with cough and cold.  Should you order complete blood count (CBC) and chest x-rays on patients like this or just treat?
Obstetric patient at 39 weeks had little sore possible herpes.  How long after the lesion heals is it safe to let her deliver vaginally?
How meaningful are these fluctuations in cholesterol/triglycerides in this patient on Zocor (triglycerides approximately 170 increased to approximately 250 on the same dose of Zocor).  How often do I have to follow the cholesterol?
Should a history of strokes be a contraindication for hormone replacement therapy or an indication?
Why did the cardiologist lower his Lanoxin from .25 to .125?  He was doing well on the .25.  Now he says he goes in and out of atrial fibrillation with a rate of 130 at home.
72-year-old woman with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, white blood count>100,000. How should I treat her?
A patient with pharyngitis.  Is it streptococcus or not?
Conventional oral contraceptives are thrombogenic so I use Micronor for 3 months postpartum.  I think that's right but I'm curious to know if that's how other people do it.
Six-year-old male seen by physician's assistant earlier in week.  Patient had diarrhea and test results showed Clostridium difficile, which is generally seen only in people on antibiotics and she hasn't seen it in a child before.  Are there false positives for the Clostridium difficile blood test?
How do you diagnose reactive hypoglycemia?
What do you do with a child in a vegetative state, who was DNR (do-not-resuscitate status), but now mother changed her mind and wants a full code?
Dr. X's nurse asked him about the dose of Valtrex when she was noting this visit on chart.  Dr. X had to look up the dose.
What is the cause of her intermittent light headedness?
Patient has sinusitis, mixed vaginitis and undesired fertility.  How can I give all three medications together?  Also got eye drops for conjunctivitis.
Saw a male patient this morning with a chemical conjunctivitis from household ammonia, incident occurred at 1 AM.  I put him on an antibiotic steroid drop.  I think that's appropriate but is it necessary?
Should I put all diabetics on angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors to protect their kidneys, even if they don't have hypertension?
Is melatonin good for anything?  I don't know anything about melatonin.  I need to know the dose.
Does Cipro come as a liquid?
The maximum dose of estradiol valerate is 20 milligrams every 2 weeks.  We use 25 milligrams every month which seems to control her hot flashes.  But is that adequate for osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease prevention?
What is the cause of this rash?
How often do ovarian cysts recur?
One month ago I did a physical exam, his alkaline phosphatase was elevated.  Had a questionable prostatic nodule, prostate specific antigen was normal.  I discussed with my partner, bowlegged, question Pagets, fractionated alkaline phosphatase and both liver and bone were high, got x-rays of skull and pelvis, which were normal.  Do I really want to go chasing after this elevated alkaline phosphatase?
Elderly woman came in this week with the odor of urine.  Has diabetes and arthritis.  Lives with grandson who is retarded.  Is this elder abuse?  What do you do about this?
How long should you keep a patient with conjunctivitis out of school?
What is causing his chest pain?  Is it cardiac or gastrointestinal?
How high can I push the Elavil dose in someone who is also taking Prozac?
What are the long term effects of Dilantin use?
What is the cause of her chest pain?  What tests does she need?
An old man went for eye surgery to have a cataract removed.  I did a physical exam for this.  I could not see the disk and could not test the ophthalmic nerve.  Which cranial nerve number is the ophthalmic nerve so I can dictate that I could not test it.
What percentage of kids get fevers with teething and do the medical books agree with the mothers?
41-year-old man with a lump in his neck.  I don't know what it is.  I think it's a muscle spasm but I really don't know.
He just started this patient with heart failure on a newly approved beta blocker (carvedilol).  Is it really better than plain old propranolol for heart failure as it is probably about four times as expensive?
Child has pectus carinatum.  Radiologist told Dr. X sometimes there are associated congenital heart problems.  Dr. X wants to study up on this.  Does the patient have these associated problems?
He wants the cream (Zovirax) which I never use so I've got to look that one up.
What is the best medication for this guy with depression but who gets sleepy on Prozac?  He sometimes ruminates on things.  What's the right medication for his symptom complex?  The psychiatrists always seem to know right away.
What is this rash?  (Physician's assistant asked him, and he didn't know either.)
What is the dose of Lamisil?
Is amoxicillin/clavulanate the same thing as Augmentin?  (He was looking at culture and sensitivity lab report.)
Is erythromycin adequate treatment for sinusitis?
Why can't this woman hear?  A patient treated for otitis media recently.  Now she says she feels better but she can't hear.  The ear is not red and it moves well with the pneumatic otoscope, Weber lateralizes to the opposite ear.
Should this lady be on Fosamax or Premarin?  She has a family history of coronary artery disease so I'd like to put her on Premarin, but she also has a family history of breast cancer so she's afraid to take Premarin.
Elderly man status post deep vein thrombosis 2 years ago, on Coumadin.  If the INR (international normalized ratio) and prothrombin time are a little over therapeutic, he feels good and has no swelling in his legs.  If his prothrombin time gets down to 17 or 18 or INR (international normalized ratio) down to 1.9 or 1.8, he swells up and complains of pain.  I don't know why this is so I keep him a little high.
What is the least sedating muscle relaxant?
Will Inderal interact with her other medications? (Depakote, Asacol, Phenergan, Lorazepam, Levsin, Darvocet N)
What is the frequency of deviated septum, and if it is say 30%, how many of them have problems related to it?  This patient has had frequent sinus infections and is scheduled for surgery.
What should I do about this bullous lesion found on sinus films?
Does Biaxin raise theophylline levels?
Why is this patient continuing to go "down hill"?  Two cardiologists have seen her and have not come up with the answer.  Maybe her potassium is low or digoxin is high.  She refuses Captopril.
How long should I treat a knee injury with conservative measures before referring to an orthopedic surgeon?  (contusion of right patella)
How often does amoxicillin cause a rash in someone with infectious mononucleosis?
What size pills does digoxin come in?
What drugs are folic acid antagonists?
What is the cause of this woman's long term head shaking (tremor)?
Are there any contraindications to changing a patient's Ativan to Xanax?  Patient is also on Paxil.
A patient phone call.  She had 3 hives on her back but she gets hives from stress also.  Is it safe to continue Bactrim?
19-year-old man from college, saw last week, had big lymph nodes and a rash and 13% eosinophils.  What is the cause of the eosinophilia?
What is the dosage of Lodine?
Is there anything new in terms of nonsurgical treatment for spinal stenosis?
How likely is it that Zoloft or Valium versus all her stressors are causing her decreased sex drive?
This is one of our employees with low back pain.  Is this a conflict of interest?  I need her to lift records but I need her to stop to help her back.  Should I really be seeing her?
What is this rash (tiny papules on face of 2 1/2-year-old)?
I normally give amoxicillin for tonsillitis.  Mother said it didn't work last time.  How far should I push it (the amoxicillin that I wanted to use)?
This lady has a pneumonia.  She's already on erythromycin.  She works in a nursing home.  What antibiotic should we use?
Is Prinivil the same thing as Zestril?  We have Prinivil samples.  She's on Zestril and doesn't have much money.
What is the cause of this child's fever?  Has been worked up recently at tertiary center and all was negative (virus).  Mom came with record of fevers.
What is the name of the ophthalmic drop that has ciprofloxacin in it?
I'd like to know what causes labyrinthitis and I'd like to know a good treatment for it too.
How do you workup galactorrhea?  I think I should get at least a thyroid stimulating hormone and prolactin level.
How do you get cerumen out when it's plastered up against the tympanic membrane?  I'm not sure what the ear nose and throat people would do.
Is this an avulsion fracture (ankle film)?
At what point do I start him on something prophylactic for his asthma, rather than just as-needed Proventil metered-dose inhaler?
What is the dose of Famvir?
How often do women get auxiliary nipples?
Am I being too cautious in ordering a serum pregnancy test which I feel is more reliable than urine pregnancy screen?  I've never found a source that says exactly when urine screens are reliable; that is, 7 days or 10 days, et cetera.  I have found a range only.
Is there a recommendation to put people on hormones (hormone replacement therapy) if they haven't been on them for 10-15 years?  There are quite a few patients I don't see at menopause but they come in their 60's.
What are practical clinical techniques for measuring bronchospasm in the office without doing spirometry?
What is the normal flora of a hamster's mouth?
There seems to be a lot of inconsistency in nutritional calcium information and this bothers Dr. X.  Why is this the case?  He does recommend 800 to 1200 milligram supplements and has a handout to give his patients.
How can I politely say "I don't have time to see your kids too" when a mother brings them along?
New onset, unexpected thrombocytopenia -- What to do with it?  Blood went to reference lab.  I wonder if sitting in the tube in the courier's car would do that.
66-year-old woman.  What to do about patient who is not taking prescribed Coumadin?  She says she is taking it but lab work leads Dr. X to feel quite positively that she is not.
Do angiotensin II inhibitors work like regular angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors to preserve kidney function in mild diabetes?
Do I have to retreat this ear?  Seen for otitis media 10 - 12 days ago, now returns for cough and sniffles but not really acute otitis.  We all overtreat.
What is the cause and treatment of this old man's stomatitis?
What is the name of that rash that diabetics get?  Ends in "diabeticorum."
What do we do with mammogram, cholesterol, and pap smear screening in women over 70?  What is a good source that is both scientific and yet has common sense about what is cost effective and what Medicare will pay for?
How many adults get ear infections (otitis media), because I've had two this afternoon and usually you think of them in kids but not adults.
How often should you check a Dilantin level in someone who's using it chronically?  What's safe?  What's wise?  Not just what everybody does?
There was this maneuver mentioned at a continuing medical education course for vertigo, but I couldn't remember how to do it or the name of it.
What is Xalatan eye drops?
What is the differential diagnosis of poison ivy?  (lichenified single patch on neck)
This guy doesn't want to take cimetidine at night because he doesn't want to take his pills with his beer (worried about interaction).  "How to get through to him?"
Would you taper Zoloft or just stop it?
What dose of Famvir to treat a primary (not recurrent) herpes genital infection?
This morning I saw a 70-year-old man with left-sided shoulder pain and numbness.  His biceps and triceps were weak and he had atrophy of his triceps.  Got cortisone injection by orthopedist 2 weeks ago with no improvement, normal x-rays.  High dose nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug no help. I didn't know what to make of it.  Neuropathy?  I called a neurologist and ended up referring him.
How many sprays are in the new Vancenase nasal inhaler -- the kind you use every day instead of twice a day.  The patient asked me and I didn't know.
Surgeons are reluctant to search for foreign bodies unless they see something on x-ray.  Is this standard of care for family doctors to go digging around in people's feet searching for foreign bodies?  I do this about twice a year.
I don't know what's causing her abdominal pain.  She had a negative lower endoscopy without biopsy.  If someone came up with a true way to diagnose irritable bowel I'd be happy with that.  I hate irritable bowel.  I recommended Citracel.
What should I do with this patient whose biopsy report shows carcinoma in situ of the vulva?
Does it make any difference whether you draw the blood for a prostate specific antigen before or after the rectal exam?
How long is it safe to be on phentermine alone?
The patient asked if there were any interaction between amantadine (takes for Parkinson's) and cephalexin because she has noted fatigue since starting the cephalexin.  I didn't know so I need to look it up.
Doctor would like a better way to introduce the subject of sexually transmitted disease -- open rather than closed question -- to get the information she needs.  Now she asks "Are you careful about protecting yourself against sexually transmitted diseases?"  Her question is whether there is a better way to ask this.
Why does he have a pleural effusion?  69-year-old man came in for eye exam, but complained of trouble breathing, et cetera so eye exam postponed.
How old should a patient be before I quit doing prostate specific antigens (PSA's)?
Is Clomid the best initial treatment for a short luteal phase?
It's just the age old question, "How do you convince someone they are depressed when they don't want to accept it?"
Which drug that the Staphylococcus aureus (causing urinary tract infection) is sensitive to, would be safe in pregnancy?
There is a residential home for severely retarded adults here and he feels he would like more information on how to meet the needs of these people.  Is there a group of doctors with better information on this?  This was brought up because of this patient.
Phone call from patient.  Does Zoloft cause stomach upset?
Do I need to work this up right now with a full weight loss workup like a chest x-ray and something to look at the pancreas, or can I follow this for now?
This patient has a cervical polyp.  Can we just watch these?  How do we know if it's cancer?  I'm always afraid of bleeding if I take it off.
What are the long-term options for treatment of hemorrhagic gastritis beyond H-2 blockers and antacids?
If just a sprained finger, I've always wondered whether it would make any difference whether we splint or not.  She is a gymnast and wants to perform next week--very important to her.
What should I order for subacute bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis on patient with allergy to penicillin pre-operatively?
Why does he feel cold all the time?
52-year-old female.  Patient asked Dr. X why she has painful orgasms?  "She feels that these may be like her uterus is contracting."
History of coronary artery bypass graft, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol approximately 140.  He's going to Texas for 3 months.  Should I continue lipid lowering diet or start medication now and ask him to find doctor in Texas?
A 74-year-old woman with elevated cholesterol and history of myocardial infarction, on diet therapy.  Her total cholesterol is approximately 290 down from approximately 340 and low-density lipoprotein (LDL-cholesterol) is approximately 210 down from approximately 240 on diet only.  What to do?  One wonders how aggressive one should be.
Patient noted 1.5 to 2.0 centimeter mass on left forearm that he picks at.  Mom says it isn't as large as it was and no clear injury although child says he was bit by a snake (has an imagination).  What is the etiology of this cystic lesion?
Patient with aortic valve replacement and triglycerides are over 2000.  Had cerebrovascular accident (CVA) when her international normalized ratio (INR) was approximately 2.5.  What should I do about the interaction between Coumadin and gemfibrozil?
What is the effect of oxygen therapy on cluster headaches.  Patient requested this therapy based on past history of this treatment relieving his headaches.  Several years ago his doctor in town X prescribed it and it helped.
What is in Ortho Novum 1/35?
What is causing her ankle pain?  No history of injury.  X-rays negative.
What is causing her dysuria (urinalysis negative)?
What's the dose of folic acid for someone who want's to get pregnant?
What is causing her fatigue?  Thyroid studies are normal.
What to do about parent who insists on antibiotics?  Rapid streptococcal test was negative.  Child has influenza with cough.
What is the dose of Sporanox?
What is the success rate for drug treatment for onychomycosis?
46-year-old man.  What is the dose of Prevacid and how do you spell it?
The nevus on her toe has doubled in size over the last month.  Do I need to treat this or can I just watch it?
What is the dose of Pediacare in a 19-pound, 5-month old?  It always says call your doctor below a certain age but what am I supposed to say?  There's no information on it.
68-year-old female came in for Papanicolaou smear and physical examination.  Her husband said, "Have you told the doctor about your sleep apnea?"  What are those spells that her husband calls sleep apnea?
This was Dr. X's partner's patient yesterday so he doesn't know name, age, et cetera, but he helped look up information.  They looked up the American Diabetes Association's definition of Type 2 diabetes.  Patient with elevated blood sugar.  Does he have diabetes?
How in depth do you go with a sports physical and lab work?  I did not get a urinalysis.  I heard at a meeting that only 1% of urinalyses on sports physicals show anything.
She has no endocervical cells on Papanicolaou smears for two years in a row.  She has a family history of some type of female cancer and a history of abnormal Papanicolaou smears.  Her cervix is "agglutinated."  What should I do?
The patient has started Brewer's yeast and sweet potatoes for post menopausal symptoms of fatigue and droopiness.  She says she feels better.  Is this a legitimate treatment to relieve some menopausal symptoms?
This is a 12 year-old girl with a repetitive nervous habit of twirling her hair.  (Mother had the same habit as a child)  How should I manage this problem?
How old should a child be before they can switch from whole milk to 2% milk?
Doctor X's question asked of Doctor Y.  This hospitalized patient with bilateral pleural effusions of unknown etiology now has confusion and a pCO2 of 50.  Is that pCO2 high enough to cause confusion?  (pO2 = 74)
I saw a woman this morning with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and worsening dyspnea, still smoking, still oxygen dependent, recent 10 pound weight gain, oxygen saturation was fine.  Why is she more short of breath?  Is her cor pulmonale worse?
Does this film show a fracture of the medial malleolus?  Is this apparent avulsion fracture old or new?
This was discussed with patient today but relates to question from a few months ago.  Patient had been on regular prednisone (not a burst) and he wondered how to wean her off the prednisone.  She is now on inhaled steroids and doing well.
What should I do with this man who has had a negative extensive workup for palpitations and chest pain?
If you just have serous otitis, I have in my mind that this resolves faster with antibiotics.  I couldn't cite an article.  I believe that but is it true?  Every time I say that to a patient, I say to myself I should go back and check.
A hospital nurse who never had chicken pox, negative titers, and frequently had to miss work, two years ago.  I don't know if there are any recommendations about giving chicken pox vaccine to susceptible health care workers.
Is sweating a side effect of Zestril?
If urologists throw fluoroquinolones at every sort of urologic symptom, can family practitioners do it too?
There are all sorts of rules about initiation of exercise programs in patients over X years of age.  But, brass tacks,  what should you do before you allow an older person to exercise and how should they start out?
What is the best way to treat a sinus infection in a patient allergic to Ceftin, penicillin and sulfa?  Also has insulin-dependent diabetes.
How much do you gain from hysteroscopy over fractional dilatation and curettage?  Should I add this technique to my armamentarium?
Are her symptoms due to dementia or depression, as often in early dementia there are symptoms of depression also?
Is it okay to use a cheap angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor for congestive heart failure (eg, Mavik) or do you need to use one of the ones proven to help congestive heart failure?
How do you approach serous otitis in terms of treatment?
History of dysequilibrium and treated for serous otitis three times, December, January, and now (June).  Has responded to antibiotics each time but he is concerned, with this frequency, if there is a possibility of a neurologic problem (that is, brain tumor, et cetera).  Offered neurology consult.
Does she have osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis (generalized but early stage)?  He discussed and looked in textbook after patient left clinic.
Does this patient with a plate in her hip, but no murmur, need subacute bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis before the dentist cleans her teeth?
He brought up a concern about a 1-year-old female with cytomegalovirus who also has a younger brother.  Not a current question but this came up with prior office visits because his nurse was pregnant at the time.
What is the cost of Losartan?
In a patient with intermittent hoarseness, how soon should you visualize the vocal cords?
He states this is a frustration question.  There is no answer.  She is an exceptional patient that lives in a group home.  Is having bleeding between periods, so scheduled for Papanicolaou smear.  At the last visit she was having her period, so rescheduled for today and because of reluctance to have exam, was given Mellaril prior to coming into office.  Again she refused to have the exam and so staff at group home will watch to see if symptoms worsen -- may have to examine under anesthesia if symptoms warrant.
How do you give Retin-A?  How does it come?  What strength? And how often?
What is the dose of Trilisate?
Are there studies to show that the recommended weight gains for pregnant women are truly beneficial?  He was referring to a patient whose starting weight was about 280 pounds.
This man had a frontal unilateral (left) headache.  I thought he had frontal sinusitis but his computerized tomography (CT) was negative so now I don't know what he has.
What are the optimal number of calories for an obstetric patient?  She says she eats all the time.
What should I do with this man who complained of left neck fullness and now has a possible thrombosis on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)?
This nursing home patient has hyponatremia.  The Washington Manual is no help.  Need to be off diuretics to use their algorithm, but what if they need the diuretic?  Do you put up with a sodium of 128 if they are on a diuretic and they need the diuretic?
Patient having second episode of upper abdominal pain with vomiting (first episode 3 months ago).  Also history of reflux at night.  Dr. X thinks she is having biliary colic.  Question is whether this is biliary colic or gastroesophageal reflux disease with spasm?
Does he really have headaches or is he pulling my leg (to get drugs)?
Are antibiotics necessary to treat a boil (furuncle)?
Obstetric patient had an ultrasound and the estimated fetal weight on the ultrasound was in grams.  I would have liked to know what is was in pounds so I could tell the mother.
What is the dosage of Famvir for treatment of herpes simplex?
I had to look up the dose of azathioprine (Imuran) before I started her on it.
The Papanicolaou smear shows reactive cellular changes that include repair.  Can't I get a Papanicolaou smear that says negative or no atypical cells?  Do I need to do anything about this?
A woman with fibrocystic breast disease.  Why do I have to wait to get the mammogram before I send her to have the lump needled (aspirated)?
What is causing his insomnia?  He went to the tertiary center and was told he had restless legs but he didn't respond at all to clonazepam.  All his life he is awake from 12 midnight to 4 AM.  Sleeps from 10 to 12 and 4 to 6 and takes 30 min nap in the daytime.
Why would you use an alpha and beta blocker like Coreg for heart failure?
How do you diagnose rotator cuff tendinitis again?  (Just went to a course on this)
What is the dosage for Questran?  He wants to treat the bile gastritis.  The drug is not FDA (Federal Drug Administration) approved for bile gastritis but the patient also has an elevated cholesterol so it should help that too as patient doesn't watch dietary intake (lots of fried chicken).
What are the side effects of Florinef?  Could it cause headaches?
Can I order the nicotine patch on someone that is pregnant?  She has cut down from 1/2 pack per day to 5 cigarettes and says she plans to quit completely.
What's the percent of doctors who still use generics for first line treatment for otitis media?
What to do for cough of 2 1/2 weeks duration?  Have tried antibiotics, Proventil, antihistamines, prednisone.  Nothing has worked.
Only symptom is tenderness along lateral neck muscles.  Temp 102 yesterday, none now.  Ears, throat, et cetera normal.  She must be coming down with something but I don't know what she has at this point.
What is the cause of her symptoms (muscle spasms left leg, left foot pain, body feels twitchy and jaw feels like it's being pulled to one side)?  Two days ago had febrile illness.  Patient very symptomatic and upset.
The patient has been symptomatic with shingles for 4 days -- Can I still give Zovirax?
Is it sufficient to just excise this lesion or does he need other follow-up or evaluation?
What is causing her abdominal pain?  Stress versus ulcer disease?
15-year-old with an influenza-like illness, increased lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and bilirubin.  We had a recent death on the football field here (anomalous coronary artery).  This patient is a football hero and the original question was whether to let him play.  I did.
Patient with atypical chest pain responded dramatically to "GI (gastrointestinal) cocktail" in emergency room.  Now has only difficulty swallowing, no pain.  Is it all right to keep treating with GI (gastrointestinal) cocktail or should he be scoped now?
Are there any resources here so that we could get the hearing test here on this 2-month old?
Is this a viral or a bacterial infection?
Which dose of Premarin is green?
What are some practical solutions to decreasing stress in one's life besides exercise -- not medications -- more along the line of relaxation type things?
What should you do to workup this back pain?
How much codeine is in Tylenol with codeine elixir?
He's on Hytrin 10 milligrams every day for benign prostatic hypertrophy.  Still having benign prostatic hypertrophy symptoms.  Do you push Hytrin higher?  Do you add Proscar?  Or do you just hold?
What is the practicality of freezing sperm before you do a vasectomy?  We got some information from the University but how long can you freeze sperm and still have it be good?
This guy is dizzy when he's active but no other symptoms.  What gives a doctor more uncertainty than dizziness and fatigue?  How often is an etiology found?
This patient still has a cervical strain that is flared up.  Muscle spasm?  What to do next?  I'll probably refer to a neurologist if still no better at the next visit.
Woman said, "By the way, I've been having these funny pains in my chest."  History of motor vehicle accident, transection of thoracic aorta repaired, has not talked to the surgeons in 10 years.  Do I need to follow up and what schedule to follow?
Is this upper respiratory infection viral or bacterial?
Why is she having pelvic pain?
Is this a fracture or a growth plate at the base of the fifth metatarsal (looking at x-ray)?
15-year-old girl I saw yesterday with vomiting and syncopal episode.  Urinalysis showed 4+ glucose, blood sugar approximately 160.  Today oral glucose tolerance test approximately 100, 230, 220, 190, 150.  What action do we take now?  Is this a kid you would start getting Glucometer readings on?
What is causing his fatigue?  I think it's viral but I'm not sure.  Will get complete blood count (CBC) and Monospot.
57-year-old farm wife called and said veterinarian came and found rabies in a calf, brain sent to tertiary center X.  Recommended that family be immunized against rabies.  Do they really need rabies shots?
What is the name of that accessory ossicle behind the talus on lateral ankle films?
Patient with schizophrenia is shaky and can't remember things "on the line" at work, also short of breath, on thiothixene, nortriptyline, lorazepam.  What is causing this exacerbation?
I'm not sure when to intervene and get aggressive with patients like this.  She has high blood sugars but 3 other endocrinologists haven't suggested anything different and I've quit looking at her sugars.  Should I just let her be?
How do you inject the bicipital tendon?
I don't know what is causing the numbness in his hand, doesn't seem like carpal tunnel syndrome.
What is the dose of Tigan suppositories?
Recent knee replacement.  Still has abnormal labs:  Calcium approximately 12, ionized calcium approximately 6, parathyroid hormone depressed, sodium approximately 130, sedimentation rate approximately 60.  What is causing her malaise, sweats and abnormal labs?
I wish I had more information about genetic testing for breast cancer.  Should this patient have genetic testing?
A patient various rashes which I can't diagnose. Family told her to switch care to my partner but he wouldn't take her.  What should you do in this situation?  I thought it was her decision.
History of guaiac positive stools but flexible sigmoidoscopy clean this morning.  Can beets cause guaiac positive stools?
At what age do other doctors stop doing various screening tests?  I had an 80-year-old man yesterday who wanted a prostate specific antigen and I couldn't convince him that he didn't need one.  Also screening for high cholesterol and is there an age that you don't need to treat it anymore?  Same with Pap smears.
Was her dizzy episode a transient ischemic attack or from her atrial fibrillation or what?
What is the maximum dose of atenolol?
What is the most effective remedy for ear wax?
Called in order for Antabuse to pharmacist.  Double checked with pharmacist on dosage and frequency.
What it the best way to deal with these little capillary things that occur on the face (for example, spiders and other capillary lesions)?
Is there a generic form of Glynase?  He wanted samples because he has no insurance.
When should the chicken pox vaccine be given (what age)?
What's the dose of Duract (equivalent to 2 Percocet and it's a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug)?
Patient (parent) education:  Is there a textbook I can show this patient's mother to help explain hand foot and mouth disease?
Patient here for preoperative physical for coronary artery bypass graft.  Can I change her Synthroid dose a week before her cardiac surgery?
Is this a toenail fungus or just a thickened toenail?
What can cause a positive Monospot other than infectious mononucleosis?
What is causing his hip pain?
Can Lorabid cause headaches?
What is causing this child's shakiness which only presents in the morning?
We usually make a diagnosis of mycoplasma bronchitis by clinical findings.  How good am I at making a diagnosis of mycoplasma with clinical findings and should I use laboratory methods more often?
Why would anyone do a total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy on a woman in her 20's with adenomyosis?
What different strengths does Accupril come in?  Patient currently takes two 20-milligram tabs.
Female patient seen this morning.  How long should you wait after delivering before starting oral contraceptives?  I'm not sure if there are increased risks of blood clots.
What is the cause of this man's weight loss, hemoptysis, shoulder pain, night sweats?  Can I find 2 or 3 things to put all this together?
What is the dose range of Klonopin?  Her chart says she's on 0.5.  Is that good or bad?
What are the dosage forms available for Lipitor?
Would Fosamax help the osteoporosis that comes from chronic steroid use?  He's on chronic steroids for his chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Interesting case he discussed with Dr. Y, his associate.  14-year-old girl had physical exam last Thursday and Dr. X noted node on left clavicle area.  On x-ray it looks to him like a large cervical rib.  Dr. Y agreed but they haven't had radiologist report.  They are both awaiting the radiologists report.  "Is this a cervical rib?"  Dr. Y said she agreed it was a cervical rib but they are waiting the radiologist's report.
Elderly woman with chin lesion.  I thought this was a sebaceous cyst, but when I got in there it was more solid, ? granuloma.  What is it?
Patient complains she has been dizzy and can't lose weight for 3 months and she has a friend who has a thyroid problem and wonders if she also has a thyroid problem.  Dr. X figures she has vertigo with labyrinthitis although he doesn't usually see labyrinthitis for 3 months.  He says he is willing to order thyroid tests which came back slightly low but a repeat was normal.  But neurologist suggests he treat with low dose of thyroid.  Dr X. has never done this but respects neurologist.  Am I too rigid?
I got an order to sign from the nursing home for a lady who wants Vicks VapoRub.  Is Vicks VapoRub effective?  Has research been done?
What drug for mastitis can be used safely while breast feeding for penicillin-sensitive patient?
Patient going to Cancun.  Does he need Hepatitis A vaccine?
A 60-year-old woman uses a lot of Avon Care Deeply with Cocoa Butter skin cream.  She asked if she could be absorbing enough of this through her skin to cause her elevated cholesterol.
Young woman seen last week got infectious mononucleosis at the beginning of summer and still feels bad after 6 to 8 weeks.  She realizes her summer is gone and now has to go back to college.  I think she's depressed.  How common is depression after infectious mononucleosis?
Why does he have an itchy scalp?  Has Parkinson's and is on Sinemet.
Anxious patient.  How much of her symptoms are organic and how much anxiety?
Two months ago I saw a patient and all her aunts (5 or 6 of them) had ovarian cancer.  The question is, is there a study going on someplace I should refer her to?
How much folic acid is in Zenate?
Patient's blood pressure is always elevated here in the office.  She also sees a cardiologist and blood pressure seems to be fine there so question is what is her blood pressure really?
In people with colds and coughs and hemoptysis, in who should you workup the hemoptysis for cancer with a cytology and/or a chest x-ray?  Just smokers or who?
At first I thought, do I focus on the groin pain or do I do these extraneous tests that he wants (like checking for diabetes) but then I thought "Is impotence a presenting sign of diabetes or a late sign?"  "God do I have to look that up or am I going to wing it?"  I decided to work him up now.
What is causing the groin pain?  Dr. X said it was hard to get the information he needed from this patient.
What are the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) criteria for disability?
Is this a malignant melanoma or just a junctional nevus or seborrheic keratosis?
In this patient with back pain, how do you make a diagnosis of arachnoiditis and how do you treat it?
I don't know what antibiotics he can't take because he's on a nevirapine study (nonnucleoside protease inhibitor) (Viramune).
What does the discharge of atrophic vaginitis look like?  She has a brown discharge.
Is this a viral or bacterial infection?
Could Procardia or Mevacor cause tinnitus?
What is the proper treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)?
Are there any drug interactions with St. John's wort, specifically with selective-serotonin-reuptake inhibitors?
What is causing his testicular pain (orchialgia)?  His exam is normal, his prostatic fluid is normal, he's been of Septra without help.
Is Keflex the drug of choice for this patient with a positive streptococcus screen (allergic to penicillin and sulfa)?
45-year-old man admitted today, now in hospital, seen by tertiary care center visiting cardiologist today.  Do you use intravenous nitroglycerine on everybody, even if you only need low dose, or is paste okay?
Should I use Serevent in association with her heart medications which include a beta blocker.  Will her heart medications need to be adjusted?  Dr. X aware of known concerns about Serevent in these patients.
Female around age 40 with vascular headache.  What is the dosage of Midrin?  Said he has to look this up occasionally.
Nurse walked into his office to see what her laboratory work showed.  She's on both Cytomel and Synthroid.  Her thyroid stimulating hormone is slightly high.  Is Cytomel T3 (triiodothyronine) or T4 (thyroxine)?
I don't know if there is a handy reference to ophthalmologic drugs because some are in this reference and some aren't.
What laboratory work do I need for an infertility workup?  Patient is anovulatory.
Woman in her 90's fell and has a nondisplaced supracondylar fracture.  Is it appropriate to not operate on this woman?  Her only use of the leg is to pivot on it for transfers.
Does Glynase come in a 6-milligram strength?
What is the name of that new drug that is like Prilosec?  It has "acid" at the end of the name.
A painful knee.  Is it degenerative arthritis or might it be a stress fracture?
Is her asthma cardiac asthma?
How long should you leave a patient on Coumadin AND heparin?  Can I stop the heparin as soon as the protime is therapeutic?
Are there any interactions between Claritin and Midrin or between Zyrtec and Midrin?
This is an old person with macrocytosis.  I see a lot of people with macrocytosis and their vitamin B12 and folate levels are normal.  What should you do to workup the macrocytosis?
Do kids need to be on multivitamins when they "eat fair" but likes noodles, does not like green vegetables?
She has a guaiac positive stool.  Do I ignore it or not?
Isn't there a stress test you can do for people who can't exert themselves?
How useful are bronchodilators (inhalers) for viral bronchitis?
In this patient with probable labyrinthitis, what else do I need to check to make sure it's not something more serious?
A little girl with viral gastroenteritis and high fever.  Had one metamyelocyte on her peripheral smear.  What to do about it?  Was it just a lab error?
60-year-old man with total cholesterol 230, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) 120, triglycerides 300.  He's on Mevacor 20 milligrams twice a day.  Should I switch to Lipitor since his triglycerides are high?
60-year-old woman with new atrial fibrillation being seen by the physician's assistant.  Is she at high risk for stroke and so should she be on Coumadin?  Which age group is it more important to anticoagulate?  Her age group (60's)?  70's?  80's?
Patient at 38 weeks gestation, Gravida 1Para 0, blood pressure 140/80 (baseline 70), 2+ protein, swollen ankles, 9 pound weight gain in 1 week, unfavorable cervix.  I think she has preeclampsia.  Should I wait 24 hours?  Is it really preeclampsia?  How should I proceed?  Should I induce or go straight to cesarean section due to unfavorable cervix.  How much protein in urine are you looking for as a marker?  Didn't know whether to hold off on magnesium sulfate since it might decrease success rate of induction.  Is it safe to hold magnesium once you make the diagnosis.  How dependable is uric acid?
What is hemoglobin Ao?  Patient was not seen today but Dr. X was looking at lab report and had this question.
How to regulate the protime on this patient?  With Coumadin 5, it's too high and with 2 it's too low and there's no dosage in between (the patient isn't eating lettuce).
Parent asked:  Is there a recommended amount of sugar I should allow my child to have?  Dr. X told patient she did not know the answer but suggested offering a nutritious diet without a lot of added sweets.
Diabetic with orthostatic hypotension.  Secondary to autonomic neuropathy?  Was hypertensive but I've been gradually decreasing hypertensive medications.  When do you start Florinef and how do you start it and how do you monitor it?
Is her injury a rotator cuff injury?
Patient has a node on her right thumb that doesn't really bother her but she wants it removed.  Should it be removed or not?
Are patients who leave with something in their hand (sample or prescription) more likely to get better, than those who leave with nothing?  Does that symbolize something, like the old witch doctor approach?  I feel better when I give something but does it have anything to do with the outcome.  Like in this case I gave a sample Proventil inhaler.  Would it have been any benefit to give a sample of air?  You always hear "The doctor never did anything for me."  He could have spent an hour doing patient education, but . . .
I had a 30-year-old male with a 7-day history of colon symptoms -- cramps and intermittent diarrhea and 2 days of mild urethritis.  Urinalysis normal.  Reiter's syndrome?  What to do?
What is a blue dome cyst?  Mother had blue dome cysts on her breasts.
She gets tachycardia with exertion but it's worse during her period.  Is it something to do with her hormones?
Is there a generic form of Zantac?
Should this patient with pneumonia be hospitalized?
What is the cause of this patient's tremor?  What is a benign tremor?
Do pilar cysts (sebaceous scalp cysts) ever turn hard (usually they're soft)?
He is 5 feet 11 inches and weighs about 230 pounds.  Is he obese?
He has shown no improvement with three weeks of therapy for Bell's palsy -- still complete facial paralysis on the left side.  When does he need more intervention?  Dr. X usually sees improvement by now.
Dr. X received phone call from visiting nurse that his patient who had a leg amputation a long time ago (diabetic) now has an ulceration on her good leg, won't let them in the house to do dressing changes, et cetera.  What to do?
Her prescription for Tegretol was filled in December, 1995 and she has not used them for a while.  The trigeminal neuralgia has returned.  Are the pills still good?
Does it matter if you do a rectal exam before you do a prostate specific antigen test?  Does it affect the test?
What is causing her dysuria?  She's on an antibiotic for a urinary tract infection, her urinalysis is negative and her wet mount is negative.
A less than 3-month-old male was seen earlier this week with chicken pox.  The question was, "Should you treat or not?"
The patient asked Dr X how you can keep from getting sinusitis.  He answered that he didn't know but he told her to take Vitamin C -- it might help and it's something she can do.
What size tube does Zovirax ointment come in?
How often should you do screening blood work on a well adult or an adult with hypertension?
In this patient with a pituitary adenoma, what antidepressant should be ordered?
Is the faint trace of a vertical line on the rapid streptococcal test really positive?  The manufacturer says yes but I'm not sure.
Patient with stiff man syndrome.  Yesterday she vomited and then couldn't catch her breath.  Sounded like a "tracheal spasm."  Otolaryngologist said to drink cold water to relax trachea.  She asked me how I can prevent these attacks in the future.  I didn't know so I referred her to a pulmonologist.  Also, what caused this episode?
This patient had a spontaneous abortion 6 weeks previously and no one ever gave her Rhogam.  How soon after a miscarriage do you have to give Rhogam?
Patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia had pneumonia.  Why is she still short of breath now that her pneumonia is all better?  Her hemoglobin is 10 and she is sick so that's probably part of it.
Should we get a chest x-ray because this is the third antibiotic I've tried for this persistent cough?  But she has lots of stress due to interracial marriage et cetera.
Let's give these immunizations.  That's right isn't it?
Has tetanus toxoid changed in the last 30 years?  He had a febrile reaction at age 8 and has not had any tetanus shots since then.  I suspect he got the (diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus vaccine) DPT.
How do you treat pediculosis pubis in the eyelid?  Asked of participant by different physician in group but it then became Dr. X's question.
How many family physicians are giving Hepatitis B vaccine to their teenagers?
Does her bulging fontanelle relate to her congestive heart failure?  Would you do something more about the bulging fontanelle like an ultrasound or head computerized tomography (CT)?
Patient has a prolapsed uterus and is having problems which include urinary problems.  Would removal of the uterus alone resolve her urinary symptoms or would she also need a cystocele repair, et cetera?
Four years ago was scoped and had chondromalacia of patella.  Now having difficulty again, affecting mobility.  What treatments would be beneficial?
Does theophylline cause fatigue?
Which test (culdocentesis or pelvic ultrasound) would be best for diagnosis of ovarian cyst in this case?
This isn't a question but when I looked at her rash, I asked myself is it shingles or possibly staphylococcal impetigo?  It isn't worth the cost of a test to find out.
Patient with hypertension and abdominal bruit.  Should I order an intravenous pyelogram?
78-year-old woman with blood pressure 210/110.  She's on Univasc and Toprol XL 100.  She has a history of an angiotensin-converting-enzyme-inhibitor (ACEI) cough and palpitations on Procardia.  Is it still essential hypertension?  My question is:  I can still treat her with medication, but if it doesn't come down right away, when do I think about secondary hypertension?
How important is it to start this newly diagnosed diabetic on something right away, versus have him come back for patient education and do it then (4+ sugar in urine, random blood sugar 250)?
Could the right-sided chest pain be the shingles (no rash now)?
What is the dose range of indapamide (Lozol)?
What do I need to be doing to workup this patient with apparent acute hepatitis?  How aggressive do I get with painless jaundice, thinking about pancreatic cancer, et cetera.
Why is his protime so different from time to time on the same dose of Coumadin?
Autopsy report (Dr. X is a medical examiner).  How do you interpret a vitreous alcohol level as compared to a blood alcohol level (autopsy of motor vehicle accident victim)?
What is patient's specialist seeing on her neck cyst?
She has a bronchitis.  The question is whether it is viral or bacterial.  It's been going on for a month, so the way I'm going to answer it is to put her on some erythromycin and see how she does.
What is the optimal treatment for depression during pregnancy?  (this patient was on Paxil)
How could the mother of this 4 1/2-year-old drift along for so long without getting any immunizations?
This patient is from a foreign country with a high prevalence of tuberculosis.  What measurement is considered positive for this person's tuberculin skin test?  When she phoned in she said her test looked the size of a nickel.
Does he have otitis media?  Can't see his tympanic membrane's due to wax.  Tried to get it out 4 days ago and couldn't.
The local pharmacist had a malignant melanoma.  When the pathology report came back I needed to look up the classification system for depth of involvement.
Could any of her medications cause her to be incontinent?  She's on thioridazine, carbamazepine, Klonopin, theophylline, Premarin, trazodone.
Are there any interactions between Biaxin and Depakote?
Could I put this guy on ketoconazole?  He had a four-fold rise in his liver function tests on Sporanox.
Is it possible for someone to get recurrent pelvic inflammatory disease without a new exposure?  She had it one year ago from an intrauterine device.
Does Benadryl come in a 50-milligram tablet?
This child had some flea bites.  Question is - are children more susceptible to flea bites and what preventive measures could be used?
A 45-year-old female experienced dramatic worsening of Meniere's Disease when on alprazolam and wants to take Xanax instead.  Is the worsening due to the generic form of the drug? Or is she only convinced that it is?  Will Title XIX pay for it?
How do you remove the memory from the Glucotrol Elite Glucometer?
What size tube does Retin-A come in?
This patient is 22 weeks by dates but today measures about 26 weeks.  Why the discrepancy?  Could it be polyhydramnios?  I guess it could be physician error.
12-year-old boy fractures his metacarpal, came in 10 days later.  In adults you would expect healing to have started by 10 days but what about a 12-year-old?
Phone call.  This female child put her fingers in her mouth after holding an Iguana.  Is she going to get anything from this?  Mother wants to know.
What causes fibroids and what would cause them to enlarge rapidly (patient asked Dr. X and she didn't know)?
What is the dose of Neurontin?
This is the second patient she has seen recently with cervical spinal stenosis which is not as common as lumbar.  How prevalent is this?
Seen this morning for breast and pelvic exam.  Had carcinoid tumor removed this spring.  Question is what urine exam should be done to follow up a carcinoid tumor?
Is there a dietary change or herbal medication that would prevent prostate cancer (patient asked him to help his son)?
What do I do with this chronic-back-pain patient?  What do I do with this drug seeker?  I send them to the pain clinic and they send them back and it's not solved at all.
43 year-old female has had rash for approximately 1 year, has gotten worse. "What is the cause of this rash?"  He said he knew what it was but needed to know the name of it - 3rd book he looked at finally had a good picture.
What's the dose of Losartan?
Is obsessive compulsive disorder hereditary (mother has the diagnosis)?
What is causing her hives?  Has had two courses (burst and taper) of prednisone and rash returns when she stops prednisone.  Also complains of fatigue.
Why do we get so much junk mail?
What is the usual cut-off age for colic?
Patient here for temporal arteritis.  Her sedimentation rate has not come down with the current dose of prednisone.  Do I need to push the prednisone harder?
What is the dose of Acular (ketorolac) eye drops?
She sees a psychologist to help with depression.  She's on 40 of Paxil.  She started to have sleep apnea symptoms.  Is Paxil associated with sleep apnea?
He's getting increasingly frequent herpes simplex virus of the lip.  Is it related to his chewing tobacco?
Patient has large area on thigh that is red and warm.  He thinks he was bitten by something but not sure.  Is this an allergic reaction to a bite or a cellulitis?
His nurse's daughter had a tumor on her knee (distal femur).  It was increasing in size but looked like a benign osteochondroma.  Is it an osteochondroma even though increasing in size?
I need a review of taxonomy of cells of the bone marrow.  They rename them (the cells) and the diseases every 10 years.  I'll admit I'm confused.  I'm embarrassed to talk about it.
What is this opacity in the left lower lobe on chest film?
How should you adjust the birth control pill if someone has spotting on it?
She had a hyperextension injury to her hand.  Is there a fracture?
What is the differential diagnosis of microcytic hypochromic anemia and is it related to sickle cell anemia?
She's not talking at age 2 years.  Is this a problem?
General question that comes up -- what to do when a patient insists on a prescription for an antibiotic when it is probably a virus and will resolve on its own?
What is the normal peak expiratory flow rate to tell her when she uses her peak flow meter at home?
What is the dose of PremPro?
What is causing his abdominal pain and dark stools?  Is it gastritis or a tiny ulcer resulting from his ibuprofen?  He's feeling better now and has a stable hematocrit.
What is the best way to go about delivering a 29-week fetal demise (prostaglandin, Cytotec, et cetera)?
Should aspirin be continued for cardiovascular protection if a patient has a history of gastrointestinal bleeding?  If aspirin is continued, should I give something to prevent the side effects?
Am I using antibiotics appropriately to treat presumed sinusitis (versus viral upper respiratory infection)?  That's my big dilemma that happens over and over.  I usually use 7 days of upper respiratory infection symptoms as a reason to give antibiotics but is this appropriate?
How do you use Redux?  What are the indications?
What is the incidence of hypothyroidism in a 13-year-old girl?  Should I check a thyroid level because of her fatigue or not?
84-year-old female nursing home resident, diabetic, phone call from nursing home regarding blood sugars.  Why are her blood sugars swinging so much?
Should a gestational diabetic have any antenatal fetal well-being testing done?
How often should a chest x-ray be done on a TB (tuberculin) reactor?  He hasn't had an x-ray in 4 years.
I had her on Macrodantin for a urinary tract infection in December and she got a cough.  Now has another urinary tract infection.  Saw a urologist and was started on Macrodantin and was told that was the only thing that would work.  Is her cough from Macrodantin?  I switched her to Cipro.
This young man has attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and is describing what sounds like depersonalization episodes.  I wonder if these could be a seizure equivalent?
Her hip x-ray showed Paget's disease.  What should I do with her Paget's disease?  I've never had a patient with Paget's disease before.
Child just got started on sulfa today and rash developed two hours after first dose.  How do you decide if this is a sulfa rash or a viral exanthem?
What is this thumb nodule?  Wart versus foreign body?
This patient has atrial fibrillation and takes aspirin.  Should I put her on coumadin or should I stay with aspirin?  The studies on coumadin vs. aspirin are variable.  I'm not a strong one for coumadin because of drug interactions and if they fall they'll bleed.  Do I do an echocardiogram and see how dilated her chambers are to make this decision?
Phone call.  An elderly man lives at home with his wife.  He's not eating, constipated, and has mobility problems.  "Why won't she agree to let her husband go into the nursing home?"
Patient on angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor with chronic cough.  Is the cough due to her asthma or to the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor?
I haven't treated mastitis in awhile -- is there anything new being used for treatment?
His last (and first) Hepatitis B vaccine was last August (6 months ago).  I'm going to bunch the series in reverse; ie, give second injection today and 3rd in a month or two.  Is that okay to bunch them in reverse?
I saw a 54-year-old woman a year ago with severe dyspnea (dying), skin like leather and she was hypothyroid (thyroid stimulating hormone 400, T4 0, T3 0).  What happened to her thyroid, why did she get hypothyroid?
What is the best and most cost effective way to diagnose sinusitis (acute vs. chronic)?  I don't want to do a CT.
Did I write the prescription correctly for Synalar lotion?  I think there is just one strength, I think it's medium potency, I think it comes in 15 cc (cubic centimeter) bottles.
Same immunocompromised woman had pulmonary embolus, smoker, on oral contraceptives.  If her chest pain progresses and she comes in, would another VQ (ventilation-perfusion) scan be helpful or is that always going to be abnormal for her?
What is the best antidepressant for an elderly patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and lung cancer?
What is the maximum dose of Vasotec?
This patient with acne is on Retin-A 0.025% cream and is only moderately controlled.  What would be the best thing to add?
Is there a hemoglobin A1C (glycosylated hemoglobin) criterion for diabetes?
Is Verelan 240 milligrams scored?  Verelan is expensive and this would be a way to cut costs (split the larger pill in half).
What is the dose of nasal ipratropium?
What is the percent of time that an ultrasound can tell if a breast cyst is really a cyst?  ?75%, ? 99%, et cetera.
A patient from the nursing home (phone call) with a sore toe.  History of gout.  Uric acid normal.  "It's hard to make a diagnosis of gout when the uric acid is normal."
She's on high dose prednisone for temporal arteritis.  Can prednisone cause heart fluttering?
It's not crystal clear what's going on with her.  I may treat her for diverticulitis.  I've seen diverticulitis in a patient as young as 19-year-old.  (This patient is in her 20's.)
How to stop somebody when she comes in with five problems, but her appointment time is only long enough for one?
Does mild Eustachian tube dysfunction cause vertigo?  And hearing loss?  No otitis media, no aspirin.
What is the most effective, but easiest (considering her busy life) thing to do with temporomandibular joint syndrome?
Why wasn't this patient very sick?  (patient with large empyema and Haemophilus influenza in sputum, no growth from empyema fluid.)
His lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) is low.  What does a low lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) mean?
Are there any drugs on this list that would interfere with general anesthetic agents? (Vasotec, Ultram, Prozac, Dicyclomine, Ambien, Tylenol)
What is the lesion in her mouth, lower gum, just in front of last tooth?  Will biopsy next week.
What type of drug (what class of drug) is Baclofen?
What is causing this patient's rapidly progressing memory loss?
Regarding Phalen's test and Tinel's tests for carpal tunnel syndrome, Dr. X doesn't see these as useful and wonders if anyone knows the sensitivity of these tests.
What was causing her prolonged pyrexia?  Laboratory work normal.  Watched her (sat on it) for five months.  Then noted neck mass.
He has had several ear infections and doesn't get over them completely -- (about 1 month duration).  Is there a particular organism I should be after?  Should I use another antibiotic than I use for an older child?
He has ear pain and I'm not sure of his diagnosis (temporomandibular joint syndrome versus external otitis).
What is causing her fatigue?  A young healthy woman with normal lab work complaining of fatigue.  Denies depression, but has had 2 recent miscarriages.
Does she have appendicitis (white blood cell count = 16,000)?
He had a direct fall on his shoulder.  Is this a rotator cuff injury?
Patient fell to outstretched hands and complains of pain on dorsal side of both hands.  X-ray showed chip fracture one of the carpal bones but he (Dr. X) couldn't find the name of the specific bone.  Tried to consult radiology text but it wasn't in there, looked for anatomy text but none available, so will look up in an anatomy text at home tonight.  Said it wouldn't affect outcome as they splinted it and he will look up name of the bone tonight.
Why is he having rectal bleeding?
15-year-old boy with acne, tetracycline not working.  What should I try next that is cost effective?
The question (he said everyone asks) is should I put this patient with an upper respiratory infection and bronchitis on antibiotics?
She is a fall risk and she has atrial fibrillation.  Do I really want her on Coumadin?  Probably not due to fall risk.
Known cancer of the prostate.  In 1994 his prostate specific antigen was approximately 20, now approximately 27.  What to do?
History of past infection left deltoid which left small cyst.  Now here with large 4" by 2 1/2" irregular red hot area L deltoid.  Question is what is it?
Patient with threatened abortion, should I send tissue to pathology (she brought in)?  Will it add anything?
I'm always uncomfortable with how quickly to move in terms of workup (patient had been having TIA (transient ischemic attack) symptoms for several weeks)
What is the incubation period of influenza A?
Is this a seborrheic keratosis or an actinic keratosis or a basal cell carcinoma?
Is the new diet pill dexfenfluramine any good?
What antibiotic regimens and doses are available for prophylaxis of otitis media?
Where can you get Sigvaris stockings and how do you order them?
What would cause burning and tingling and urinary urgency after ejaculation?  Would retrograde ejaculation do that?
What is the name and concentration of pediatric liquid prednisone?  Liquid Pred?
What is vestibulitis?  How do you diagnose it and how do you treat it?
How late is too late to use amantadine or rimantadine for influenza?
Are there any diet pills on the market now that fen-phen is off the market (Meridia)?
What are the chances of having an ectopic pregnancy if the urine pregnancy test is negative (negative predictive value; false negative rate)?
What is the approach to genital ulcers, diagnostically?
What is an exact conversion between grams and pounds?
What does nicotine stomatitis look like?  Would a white hard palate with red dots be consistent?
What is the success rate for Nissen Fundoplication by laparoscopy for gastroesophageal reflux?
How do you calculate the creatinine clearance?
What are the indications for a ventilation-perfusion (VQ) lung scan in someone with a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation that might also have a pulmonary embolus?
After how many urinary tract infections in a child should you do a workup for anatomic defects in the urinary tract and what should the workup be? (recurrent urinary tract infection)
How do you treat resistant head lice?
What was the reference to the American Academy of Pediatrics statement about no capital punishment for child discipline about 10 years ago?
Can lovastatin, niacin, diltiazem, or ranitidine cause myalgias or arthralgias?
What should you do if the nonstress test (NST) is nonreactive?
Are poison ivy extract injections helpful in preventing poison ivy?
If someone has cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) I on cervical biopsy (coloposcopy) that involves the glands (glandular involvement, extends into glands), do they need a cone biopsy?
What is the best test for Lyme disease?  How should you approach the patient who thinks they may have Lyme disease?  How to work up?  Just treat if any doubt due to poor tests that are available?
What is the pivot-shift test?
Which diabetics should get captopril to prevent renal failure?  Just those with hypertension? Just early renal failure?
How do you know if ST segment elevation is real (that is, injury) or just J-point elevation?
Are subtle late decelerations just as bad as deep late decelerations?
What is the name of those cysts that can occur inside the lower lip? (mucus or mucous retention cysts)
If the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) test comes back positive and you are asked to give the results to the patient, what should you do?
Why would someone with rhabdomyolysis have a low serum albumin?
How do you treat hemorrhoids and what are the indications for surgery?
Is there an association between breast feeding and breast cancer?
How do you marsupialize a Bartholin cyst?
Can oral contraceptives cause a bone infarct (aseptic necrosis) in the tibia?
Can you have a PO2 of 50 and an oxygen saturation of 99?
What should you do if a 9-month-old infant has no teeth that have erupted?
Are there any medications that can cause a tremor?
Can you get an ejection fraction from an echocardiogram?
What neonatal screening tests are done in Iowa?
When does the incidence of testicular cancer fall off in terms of age?  When is it OK to stop doing self exams?
What causes Torsades de Pointes and how do you treat it?  Overdrive with external pacemaker?
What are the indications for trying to diagnose and/or treat Helicobacter pylori in patients with peptic disease and nonulcer dyspepsia?  What are the indications for testing for Helicobacter pylori, especially by serology?
What is the adenosine-thallium exercise tolerance test?
How do you do a weighted average of Poisson data?
What is the evidence that micronized progesterone works for PMS (premenstrual syndrome)?
What is the new recommended dose of metronidazole for bacterial vaginosis just reported in the New England Journal of Medicine?
What is the differential diagnosis of annular skin lesions?
Should we be doing triple screening (maternal serum alpha fetoprotein, human chorionic gonadotrophin, unconjugated estriol concentrations) on all prenatal patients?
What tests should be ordered in someone with elevated transaminases to see if they have hepatitis?
How should you work up a low Vitamin B12?
What dose of captopril should you push for in congestive heart failure?
If a patient has a definite breast mass, should you refer to a surgeon first or get mammogram first, or aspirate first or what?
Is fenfluramine (Pondimin) effective in treating obesity when given with an antidepressant?
Can metformin cause a mild acidosis that does not require stopping the drug?
Is there any association between Down syndrome and arthritis?
What's the best way to dilate someone's eyes to examine the fundi?
Do you need to get a pregnancy test before giving the next Depo-Provera injection?
What is the "dawn" phenomenon and how do you know if someone has it?
Why do all the textbooks say that the Poisson distribution is most applicable when analyzing rare events?
When will inhaled insulin be available?
What is the mnemonic for anion gap metabolic acidosis?
Can inhaled steroids cause glaucoma or cataracts?
What is the association between alcoholism and diabetes?  Does alcoholism cause diabetes?
What is the relationship between the Bernoulli distribution and the binomial distribution?
Should a 47-year-old woman with a positive PPD (purified protein derivative) (not definite recent converter, received BCG (Bacille Calmette-Guerin) vaccine as child) be treated with INH (isoniazid)?
What does medical informatics mean?
Can felbamate cause a feeling of being warm or hot or dizzy or thirsty?
What would cause intermittent distorted sounds (fuzzy, not clear) lasting 15 to 30 minutes to a full day, one to three times a week in a 44-year-old woman?
How much does cholestyramine (Questran Light) cost?
How do you distinguish among the different kinds of headache?  Are there diagnostic criteria?
How often should white blood cell counts be monitored in patients on carbamazepine?
What was the outcome of the controversy about whether sodium in the diet aggravates hypertension?
Does oral iron therapy affect the guaiac card result?
Can prostatitis increase the prostate-specific antigen (PSA)?  How much?
What is the lifetime incidence of breast cancer and how much is this increased if you have fibrocystic breast disease?
What should you do if there has been a lapse in the hepatitis B vaccine schedule?
Can alcoholic hepatitis cause a fever?
How do you workup a testicular mass (for example, ultrasound) and how do you know who does not need to be referred for biopsy?
How much cholestyramine is in Questran tablets compared to a scoop of Questran powder?
How accurate is the rapid streptococcal test?
What is the best treatment for gout in someone with a normal uric acid level and normal 24-hour urine uric acid?
Is it all right to use Norplant in obese women?
What would cause diarrhea and fever in an adult?
If you think someone has temporal arteritis, should you wait to start Prednisone until after the temporal artery biopsy is taken, thinking the Prednisone will mess up the biopsy results?
Does Genora 35 really have exactly 35 micrograms of estrogen since it is a generic?  If not does this affect efficacy?
How do you grade colposcopy results?
How long should you wait before giving an epidural in a patient on oxytocin?
What is a normal white blood count for a baby (for various ages in an infant)?
What would cause a high serum albumin?
How long does the troponin stay elevated after a myocardial infarction?
How do you diagnose Kaposi's sarcoma and how do you treat it?
What was the reference to that article on unexplained crying in infancy?
What are the advantages of plaster versus fiberglass casting material?
What does increased variability (saltatory pattern) mean on a fetal heart rate tracing?
What should you do with a benign appearing adrenal mass that shows up unexpectedly on abdominal computerized tomography (adrenal incidentaloma)?
What is prealbumin and why would you order a serum prealbumin?
Is serum progesterone better than human chorionic gonadotrophin to follow someone with first trimester bleeding to see if they will abort?
How do you diagnose and treat post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis?
What are some tricks and things to remember when doing flexible sigmoidoscopies?
Where can you go swimming in (name of town)?
Is Rogaine okay to use for female pattern baldness?  What pattern does female baldness take?
What would cause a low mean corpuscular volume (MCV) with a normal hemoglobin and hematocrit?
Is it all right for children to take griseofulvin?
What is ceftazidime?
Does having had a cone biopsy in the past affect the length of labor?
Which is better, Biaxin (clarithromycin) or Zithromax (azithromycin)?
What are Acular ophthalmic drops? (good for allergic conjunctivitis?)
Are there differences among the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI's) in terms of the degree of sedation they cause?
How do you treat an acute transfusion reaction characterized by shaking chills and dyspnea?  Benadryl and hydrocortisone were used.
What are the indications for adenoidectomy in children? snoring? chronic nasal obstruction?
What is a tethered spinal cord?  Can it cause urinary incontinence?  When should you be suspicious clinically?
What are the causes of sinus tachycardia?
Is there a syndrome characterized by multiple lipomas?  Does it have any significance if someone has multiple lipomas?
What causes nonpalpable purpura?
What is the recommended treatment for a fungal nail infection and how should you make sure that's what it is?
What is the evidence that "developmental care" is useful in newborn nurseries?
How do you work up a syncopal (syncope) episode in an adult?
Does intravenous erythromycin cause nausea?
Who with polymyalgia rheumatica needs a temporal artery biopsy?
What are the different kinds of von Willebrand disease and how are they inherited?  (this patient had Type 2A)
What would cause brief myoclonic jerking in one leg in an infant?  Would a benign myoclonus do this or should we be concerned about a seizure disorder?
Of all the immunizations we give, which are living and which are dead?
Can alcohol withdrawal affect pupillary size?
How strict should you be in preventing participation in sports if you have Osgood Schlatter's Disease?
Why does the calcium tend to fall when the phosphorus rises in kidney failure?
Is there any evidence that stool softeners like Colace (Docusate sodium) do anything?
What does the ferritin level do in anemia of chronic disease?
What are the indications for insulin in a type 2 diabetic not controlled on oral agents?  What is a reasonable goal for degree of control in Type 2 diabetes?
What is seronegative spondyloarthropathy?
What is a normal respiratory rate for a newborn?
How do you work up a jittery baby?
Does it make any difference if you give Lipitor (atorvastatin) or other similar lipid lowering drugs with the evening meal or can you give anytime during the day?
Is it okay to give rubella vaccine to a breast feeding mother?
What would cause recurrent episodes of scalp pain in a 37-year-old woman?
How can you differentiate a common cold (viral upper respiratory infection) from one of the bacterial complications of a cold?
What antihypertensives do not cause impotence?
How do you listen for a renal artery bruit (what technique)?
If a patient's husband has a positive blood test for Hepatitis C and elevated liver function tests, should the couple use condoms?
What is Best's disease?
Is the silver stain of sputum the best way to diagnose pneumocystis pneumonia?
In general, when checking gentamicin levels, should you get a peak and trough level, or just trough?
What causes dermatofibromas?
What drugs should patients with heart failure be on unless contraindicated, besides diuretics?
Is there any treatment for daytime or nighttime bruxism (teeth grinding) or jaw clenching in an adult, especially if it may be causing temporomandibular joint (TMJ) syndrome?
How do you diagnose sinusitis clinically?
What is central pontine myelinosis?  We gave hypertonic saline to a patient with hyponatremia and Dr. X warned about this.
How do you treat night cramps (leg cramps) and what causes them?  Is gabapentin (Neurontin) effective?  How do you workup muscle cramps?
What are the Ottawa ankle rules for taking x-rays of injured ankles?
What causes low serum calcium?
What are the American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines about early discharge of healthy newborns especially as related to hyperbilirubinemia?
Can anemia cause a low pulse oximetry?
Does menopause cause weight gain?
What is the differential diagnosis of postauricular fold dermatitis?
What causes pain and tenderness on the xyphoid process?
How soon following an acute deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) should the patient use a compression stocking?
Do you have to avoid the sun when you take Lipitor?
What would cause hypokalemia besides diuretics?
What is Urised?
What does it mean to say something is growing or declining at an exponential rate?  (Medical student's learning issue:  there is an exponential decline in lung function of 2 - 3% per year.)
How do you treat pulmonary hypertension?
What medicines does the patient need to be off before getting a captopril renal scan?
Does it make any difference if you take the blood pressure again in the same arm after a few seconds of the first reading?  Do you get an accurate reading the second time?
How do you do colposcopy of the vagina in a woman who had a hysterectomy and now has vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia on Papanicolaou smear?
What are some of the nitty gritty details about treating preeclampsia in labor?
Did X's study on malpractice and gender control for age?
What are the clinical features and prognosis of post-concussion syndrome?
What is Lunelle and what are the indications?
When inducing or augmenting labor with oxytocin (Pitocin), what is the maximum dose you can give?
Is there a graph showing the cumulative chance of delivering based on gestational age (would go sharply up at 41 1/7, 41 2/7, and so on)?
What is flumazenil?  It's supposed to be a benzodiazepine reverser.
When should you get vancomycin levels?
What is terbinafine (Lamisil) and what does the Medical Letter say about it?
Doctor X saw a 73-year-old woman with a history of sarcoidosis in 1957.  Patient wanted a follow-up chest x-ray.  What is the recommended follow-up for sarcoidosis?
When treating someone with polymyalgia rheumatica, do you follow the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) or the symptoms?
How soon will it be before transcutaneous glucose monitoring is available similar to pulse oximetry?
What is the incidence of single umbilical artery (two-vessel umbilical cord)?
Why do people get nephrotic syndrome?  What causes it?
What is the differential diagnosis of otalgia in someone with a normal ear exam?
What was the reference to the recent article about tetracycline for inflammatory arthritis?
What is the Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) mnemonic to help remember causes of PEA (pulseless electrical activity) or EMD (electrical mechanical dissociation)?
What would cause a patient to have a low free T4 (thyroxine) and a high TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone) when the hypothyroid patient is on Synthroid chronically (0.25 milligrams every day)?
What would cause breast pain (mastodynia) in a 63-year-old woman, not on estrogen?
Which is better to diagnose lumbar spinal stenosis or disc disease, computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)?
What crystal causes pseudogout?  Is meniscal calcification pathognomic of pseudogout?
Is there a danger of asymmetric growth in a 9-year-old girl with a nondisplaced Salter II fracture of the distal humerus?
Can cardioversion or an external pacemaker cause a fever?
Are serum felbamate levels clinically available?
Is clindamycin just as likely to cause pseudomembranous colitis in children as it is in adults?
How do you manage a threatened abortion?
What antihypertensives should be used according to what comorbid conditions are present?
What test should you order to rule out renovascular hypertension?  Captopril renal scan?
What antihypertensives are least likely to cause erectile dysfunction (impotence)?
How do you diagnose lactic acidosis in someone taking Glucophage (metformin)?  What tests should you order and when should you suspect it?
What metabolic work-up should a patient have with recurrent kidney stones?
How high is it safe to let the liver enzymes, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) go up when someone is on isoniazid (INH)?
What does T.A. stand for on an immunization card from New Guinea?
Can prednisone be used to treat alcoholic hepatitis?
What activities should be avoided in the immediate post cardiac catheterization period?
Is intramuscular ketorolac (Toradol) just as likely to cause gastrointestinal hemorrhage and ulcer as oral nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs?  Is the nonsteroidal effect systemic or local?
How do you treat uric acid kidney stones?
When and how often should you get Papanicolaou smears after doing cryosurgery for cervical dysplasia?
What are the names of the three lateral ankle ligaments?
What causes uvulitis and how do you treat it?
What is the initial response to coma in the emergency room (ER)?
Does breast cancer in an aunt increase the risk of breast cancer?
What is Genora (possible estrogen)?
Is there an association between high serum iron levels and coronary artery disease?
How are homocysteine and folic acid related to hyperlipidemia?
What should you do about a low-frequency hearing loss?
Can anserine bursitis occur in young adults (33 years old)?
Is a neurilemmoma benign?
What is the difference between osteoporosis, osteopenia, and osteomalacia?
I was recently on the Hospital X service and had 4 admissions in 14 days.  They all came on the same day.  What is the probability of that?
What can you use to prevent a transfusion reaction in someone with a history of febrile transfusion reactions in the past?
What would cause a widely split second heart sound with fixed splitting?
Do antibiotics help irritable bowel syndrome?
What is midodrine?  How do you use it for diabetic autonomic neuropathy with postural (orthostatic) hypotension?
Is Cognex (Tacrine) helpful for Alzheimer's disease?
Is there any association between vitiligo and diabetes?
How do oral contraceptives work?  What's the mechanism?
If you detect microalbuminuria on a random urine, should you just treat with captopril or should you get a 24-hour urine protein to document the level?
What is pseudonormalization mentioned by Doctor X on Patient X's electrocardiogram (ECG)?  (T-wave change)
What would cause a hard elongated thin transverse subcutaneous mass on the dorsum of the penis?
What are the dose and side effects of rimantadine (Flumadine)?
What is the significance of temperature instability, especially low temperature, as a sign of neonatal sepsis?
What dose of folic acid should be taken when a patient is trying to get pregnant?
How often should you do Papanicolaou smears on a patient following hysterectomy?
Can marijuana (cannabis) cause depression?
How do you give albuterol nebulizer treatments to infants and children?  What's the dose?
How do you analyze data with a dichotomous outcome variable and a continuous independent variable?
What should we be doing about Group B streptococcal prevention, screening, and treatment in pregnancy?
What are the indications and contraindications for glucophage (Metformin)?
Does Tetramune have acellular or regular pertussis vaccine?  What is the current pediatric schedule?
How do you make the diagnosis of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension) if you suspect it?
How do you diagnose carotidynia and how do you treat it?
What should you give someone exposed to whooping cough (pertussis)?
Should we use captopril in diabetic patients even if they have no microalbuminuria to prevent diabetic nephropathy?
How often should you check liver function tests in patients on the "glitazones" like rosiglitazone (Avandia)?
Can pneumonia make a person's LDH (lactate dehydrogenase) and AST (aspartate aminotransferase) go up?
What is the differential diagnosis of someone with hypoxia, not dyspneic, normal chest x-ray, status post fractured hip, pH normal, pCO2 normal, PO2 56, nonsmoker?
Which blood pressure do you use as a baseline to compare, the first prenatal exam or the lowest second trimester blood pressure?
How likely is it that a normal adult would get oral Candida (thrush)?  How aggressively should they be worked up for immunosuppression?
Can the Zavanelli maneuver be used to replace a partially delivered breech?
What is Vagisil?
What should you do if an obstetric patient is exposed to Fifth disease (parvovirus, erythema infectiosum)?
What test should you order if you want to screen for lead poisoning?  Blood lead level?  Free erythrocyte protoporphyrin?
In a 47-year-old woman taking isoniazid (INH) as tuberculosis prophylaxis, should you get periodic liver enzymes?
How do you give fresh frozen plasma to someone with a high prothrombin time (protime) (for example, from liver failure) before doing a procedure (for example, an abdominal tap for ascites)?
Is there any association between thyroid function and urticaria?  A patient's urticaria got better when she was hypothyroid and worse when given replacement therapy.
Is it possible to get gout in the olecranon bursa?
What are the contraindications and risks of using Imitrex?
How do you diagnose and treat IgA nephropathy?
In a patient on warfarin for some other condition such as a deep vein thrombosis, should they also be on aspirin to interfere with platelet function if they have arteriosclerotic heart disease?
How much does Hepatitis B vaccine cost?
Can a ruptured ovarian follicle cyst cause a low grade fever and leukocytosis?
If someone has an abnormal triple screen, indicating an increased risk for Down syndrome, do they need any special follow-up or fetal surveillance?
What was the reference to that recent New England Journal of Medicine article about ranitidine to prevent upper gastrointestinal bleeding in the intensive care unit?
What are the causes of a paradoxically split second heart sound?
What is the formula to calculate the relationship between pH and pCO2?
If a patient delivers past term with one pregnancy, is she more likely to deliver past term with subsequent pregnancies?
In a patient using long term steroids for asthma, what screening tests, if any, should be done (for example, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan, cataract check, diabetes screening, and so on)?
What is the antibiotic of choice for acute sinusitis?
What are the different drug possibilities for treatment of depression?
Of what value is it to know the A-a gradient (alveolar-arterial difference) on blood gases?  How is it used clinically?
Where is the ascending pharyngeal artery?  (Prompted by a patient with a pulsating posterior pharyngeal mass)
What does the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) recommend for frequency of prenatal visits according to trimester?
What is the best treatment for dry mouth (xerostomia)?  Artificial saliva?
How do you treat pancreatitis?
What is the upper limit of normal of small bowel diameter on flat plate of abdomen?  A quarter (the coin) is 2.4 centimeters.
If you have a left occipital cerebrovascular accident, which side homonymous hemianopsia will you have?
Is aspirin just as good as warfarin (Coumadin) for preventing strokes in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation?
What does OSCE stand for and what is an OSCE?
What are survival rates of premature babies according to gestational age?
If someone had x-rays for acne treatment, how should they be followed-up regarding thyroid cancer risk?
Do you need to use subacute bacterial endocarditis (SBE) prophylaxis for mild tricuspid regurgitation (TR)?
How do you do a paracentesis (for ascites)?
Sort out "e" to "a" changes, vocal fremitus, tactile fremitus, "99."
How do you instruct someone to irrigate their nose for sinusitis?
Is there a way to improve the decreased libido (or sexual function) among females (or males) taking Prozac or other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI's)?
What is the best way to enter a continuous variable like age into a logistic regression model?
What is a Lisfranc fracture?
Is it still the current recommendation that breast-feeding infants get fluoride, iron, Vitamin C, and Vitamin D supplements?
What does paraneoplastic syndrome mean and what does it do?
What is the differential diagnosis of raised red papules on the posterior scalp in a 48-year-old man?
Are there any nonsedating antihistamines that are safe in childhood?
Which is better for circumcision anesthesia, dorsal penile block or ring block?
Is it reasonable to get periodic ultrasounds to rule out an abdominal aortic aneurysm in someone with a family history of abdominal aortic aneurysm?
What are the clinical and electroencephalographic (EEG) features of absence seizures and the sensitivity of the electroencephalograph (EEG)?
How accurate are the rapid streptococcal test and throat culture if a patient is already on antibiotics?
How do you mix up the saline nasal wash solution recommended by otolaryngology?
What are the heat injury syndromes?
Can acute infection (cellulitis, pneumonia) cause anemia the same way that chronic infection can?
What causes Cheyne-Stokes respirations?
What are the DSM IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders) criteria differences between borderline personality disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder?
What is Klippel Feil Syndrome?  What are the manifestations?
What should you do with sustained fetal bradycardia?
How do you know if ST elevation is abnormal on the electrocardiogram?
What is the purpose for getting an alpha-1-antitrypsin level in a patient with emphysema, since there's nothing you can do about it anyway?
Should all pregnant women be tested for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)?
What is mepron (Atovaquone) (antibiotic for pneumocystis)?
Is Vitamin E useful for the treatment or prevention of Alzheimer's disease?
What is the reference to that article about whether histamine-2 (H2) blockers help prevent stress ulcers in intensive-care-unit (ICU) patients on respirators and what did it say?
Can inhalation of gasoline fumes cause vertigo?
If a patient with a subarachnoid-hemorrhage-type headache has a negative head computerized tomogram, should they still have a lumbar puncture to look for blood in cerebrospinal fluid?
What is the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in 1992?  What are the possibilities for acute flares and for disease altering medications?
If you are trying to rule out structural liver disease as a cause of abnormal liver function tests, should you get an ultrasound or a computerized tomographic scan?
How do you make the diagnosis of proctalgia fugax and how do you treat it?
What should you do with fetal tachycardia?
When do you need to do a thoracentesis for pleural effusion under ultrasound guidance versus when can you just do it at the bedside?
In someone with intermenstrual bleeding, what would cause a low serum progesterone (1.8 nanograms/milliliter) with secretory endometrium on biopsy on the same day?
If a patient has genital warts (condylomata), do you do anything different in labor or delivery?
How do you diagnose iritis and episcleritis (causes of red eye)?
How should you ask a sexual history?
What would cause crepitus of the scapulothoracic joint and how would you treat it?
When you do the Weber and Rinne' test, what frequency tuning fork should you use?
What does it mean when the laboratory report says "low level rubella immunity"?  Should the patient get rubella vaccine or not?
What does a slightly low free thyroxine (free T4) with a normal thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) mean in a patient on thyroid replacement or not on replacement?
What would cause small kidneys on ultrasound in a patient with chronic renal failure?
At what age does the risk for prophylaxis for a positive tuberculin skin test outweigh the risk of reactivation of tuberculosis (TB)?
What are some of the common street names of drugs used illicitly?
What does the Medical Letter say about Lozol (indapamide)?
What is the best way to give the Centers-for-Disease-Control-recommended folic acid 0.4 milligrams to women of child-bearing age?
What is the differential diagnosis of night sweats and hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating) and how do you treat it?
Is there a short synopsis with pictures of how to do a vasectomy?
What anticoagulation should patients get after a fractured hip?  What does that official guideline publication say?
What is the best method for removing a sebaceous (intradermal, epidermoid) cyst?
What are the indications for Digibind (digoxin immune fab)?
What does MSG stand for (regarding Chinese restaurant syndrome)?
What causes urinary frequency and dysuria in a child with a normal urinalysis?
What syndromes are associated with short little fingers?
How often does an acute cholecystitis present with left-sided abdominal pain?
How is preeclampsia defined and differentiated from just pregnancy induced hypertension?
Is there any treatment for jet lag?
What is Resaid?
How many people with a condition or exposure do you need before you can enter them into a logistic regression model?
How should you suspend anticoagulant therapy (warfarin, Coumadin) for surgery?  Should you use heparin, low-molecular weight heparin, or nothing and for how long?
Does pregnancy cause a low albumin?
What is the reference to the guidelines for treating children in the emergency room with fever of unknown source?
Should the influenza vaccine (flu shot) be given to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) positive patients?
What is zolmitriptan (Zomig)? (like Imitrex)
If an adult with no history of chicken pox is exposed to a child with chicken pox or to a child who was exposed to chicken pox, should the adult get varicella immune globulin (VZIG) or vaccine?
Are oral decongestants contraindicated in patients with hypertension?
Do reticulocytes raise the mean corpuscular volume (MCV); that is, are reticulocytes bigger than normal red blood cells?
What is the strain pattern on electrocardiogram?  What does it mean?  How do you differentiate it from ischemia?
What did that article in the New England Journal of Medicine say about how to diagnose acute myocardial infarction in the presence of left bundle branch block (LBBB)?
Could thirst, hypertension, and headaches, with the thirst and headaches improving on an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor be related?
What were the three antihistamines mentioned in the newspaper that might cause cancer?
How good is the serum test (ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) or CIE (counterimmunoelectrophoresis)) for Giardia (as opposed to 3 stools for ova and parasites)?
How do you interpret hepatitis serologies and which ones should be ordered under what circumstances?
What virus causes common warts (verrucae vulgaris)?  Is it a type of human papilloma virus (HPV)?
What are the side effects of Depo-Provera when used for contraception?  How long is it normal to have irregular bleeding with Depo-Provera?
What should you do if you get back "disordered proliferative endometrium" on an endometrial biopsy in a postmenopausal woman on hormone replacement therapy having abnormal uterine bleeding?
How many red cells per high power field is considered abnormal on a urinalysis?
Is there any relationship between pseudocholinesterase deficiency and malignant hyperthermia?  What are they?
What is a normal kick count (fetal movement count), 10 per hour, 4 per hour, 10 per two hours?
What would cause vaginal dryness besides menopause?
What would cause a large penis, small testes, female body habitus?
What is the medical term for a groin muscle pull?  Is it a described entity?  How do you diagnose it and how is it treated?
What is an Adie's pupil?
Is it okay to breast feed if you are getting Depo-Provera for contraception?
Should gastric polyps be removed?
Can a low serum ferritin be caused by anything besides iron deficiency?
How do you dose Augmentin and amoxicillin when you give them twice a day (BID)?
What are the standard orders for alcohol withdrawal?
Why would someone have generalized pruritus at the midpoint of their menstrual cycle?
How should you work up someone with unsuspected hepatomegaly?
What would cause global hypokinesis on an echocardiogram (ejection fraction 40%)?  What kinds of cardiomyopathy are there?
Who would be a candidate for Glucophage (metformin)?  Do the risks of lactic acidosis outweigh the benefits for most people?
What are normal adult head circumferences?
What are the causes of ear pain (otalgia) other than ear disease?
What are the causes of a spontaneous pneumothorax in a 25-year-old female smoker?
Do you really need to do a liver biopsy in patients with a chronically but mildly elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or elevated liver function tests (LFTs)?
Can you get permanent brain damage or memory loss from electroconvulsive therapy (ECT)?
If you stop smoking does your cough get worse?
What should we be telling pregnant women about calcium intake?
Could phenol or xylene cause neurologic disease such as weakness on one side?
What would cause an irregular pacer artifact in a pacemaker that's capturing normally?
What is the best kind of glucose monitoring machine (like Accucheck) for monitoring type 2 diabetics?
Is there a type of headache that gets worse with drinking alcohol?
Is the Helicobacter pylori antibody test a reasonable test to diagnose Helicobacter pylori?
What is the reticulin stain used for on a bone marrow?
What would cause weight loss in a 16-year-old boy?
Is it legitimate to use fenfluramine and phentermine longer than 6 months to control obesity?  Is it legal?
What are the indications and schedule and dose for Hepatitis A vaccine?
What are the causes of hypomagnesemia?
What should you do if someone has inflammation on the Pap (Papanicolaou) smear and nothing else and they are asymptomatic and the report says "adequate for interpretation"?
What is the formula for anion gap?  What causes anion gap and nonanion gap acidosis?
What are the possible causes of an acute inflammatory scrotal mass?
What should you do if someone has postmenopausal bleeding on Premarin .625 milligrams and Provera 2.5 milligrams every day?
What antibiotic should you use in someone with a COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) exacerbation who requires admission?
What would cause retrograde ejaculation?
What would cause urinary retention (850 milliliter residual) in an elderly woman?
Is there any problem with chronic steady use of Midrin such as tolerance or addiction?
What is the best time to draw anticonvulsant serum levels?
Is it safe to take Midrin while breast feeding?
What would cause a man to have an intermittent cold arm and diffuse sweating?
What is a good protocol for diagnosis and treatment of corneal foreign body?
Is the appearance of the tonsils helpful with diagnosing streptococcal sore throat?
Is a magnesium level of 1.7 (normal 1.8 - 2.4) low enough to treat?
Is it okay to breast feed when pregnant with the next child?
Should you use prophylactic antibiotics for an open fracture of the distal phalanx of the finger?  (which one, how long)
What test should you order to rule out pheochromocytoma (do you need to get all 3 tests:  VMA (vanillylmandelic acid), metanephrines, catecholamines)?
Should you get a C-reactive protein (CRP) to help rule out sepsis in the newborn?
What does a high mean platelet volume mean?
What is the likely cause of hematuria (microscopic) in a 5-year-old boy whose father had gross hematuria in high school and college when he ran?
What causes peeling fingernails where the ends of the nails flake off?  What is this called?
Can anemia make the PO2 or the oxygen saturation lower than it would otherwise be?
How do you treat agitated depression?
Is there any kind of legitimate arthritis cream you could prescribe for a patient?
Should I be switching patients from albuterol inhalers to salmeterol?  What does the Medical Letter say?
What are the indications for removing kidney stones that are still in the kidney, and, if there are no indications to remove them, how should they be followed?
At what level of hypocalcemia should you treat with calcium?  What level is dangerous for the heart?
What is the best dressing for a leg ulcer?  Saline? Wet to dry? Acetic acid?
What would make the serum amylase very high (1300) but with a normal serum lipase?
What is the variance of a binomial proportion and how do you calculate confidence intervals for a binomial proportion of zero; for example, 0/24 = 0?
What is the best treatment for the common cold?
Is it okay to give oral thiamine in alcohol withdrawal instead of intramuscular thiamine?
What is a normal calcium level in a baby?
What causes mild disseminated intravascular coagulation?
What kind of skin lesions can Coumadin (warfarin) cause?
What is the normal number of white blood cells (WBC's) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)?
What are the skin lines under the eyes in people with allergies called?
Does it make sense to inject trigger points for chronic pelvic pain?
Is chewing tobacco a risk factor for heart disease or cancer?
What does the American Academy of Pediatrics recommend concerning frequency of well-baby exams, laboratory work to get (lead, complete blood count, urinalysis), Tuberculin testing, checking developmental milestones, and so on?
How do you use Enoxaparin (low molecular weight heparin)?  How do you dose it in an obese person?
At what age should you refer an infant with strabismus?  Does esotropia versus esophoria make a difference?
What is an "adequate dose" of benazepril for microalbuminuria (assuming no problems with hypotension).  The original studies were done with captopril, but now we use benazepril or some other angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitor.
Should you give phenobarbital after a single febrile seizure?
What could cause decreased libido in a 41-year-old woman?  Can diabetes cause it?  What is the treatment?
What is the difference between a partial complex seizure and a major motor seizure?
What are the weight loss criteria for deciding if someone needs an extensive work up for weight loss?
Could systemic lupus erythematosus cause left-sided weakness and how does systemic lupus erythematosus change cerebral spinal fluid?
How do you treat daily headache (daily migraine or daily tension headache)?
Can keratosis pilaris cause a generalized rash or is it always confined to the upper arms?
Can an acute pneumonia cause hypophosphatemia?
Is it okay to give pain medication to a patient with acute undiagnosed abdominal pain?
Should we be giving Hepatitis B vaccine to newborns?
How do you treat a few adhesions on the foreskin of a 2 year old?
Does Zantac (ranitidine) affect iron absorption?
What are those four principles of medical ethics mentioned by Dr. X?
What should you do if the Duffy antibody is positive in an obstetric patient?
What is clonazepam (Klonopin)?
Does direct bilirubin elevation cause kernicterus?
If you have a patient with bright red rectal bleeding from hemorrhoids or some benign cause or with a negative flexible sigmoidoscopy, and they continue to have the rectal bleeding, when do they need to have another flexible sigmoidoscopy?
What is the name of the syndrome that causes a preauricular lymph node along with a viral syndrome?
At what age should you start giving influenza vaccine and pneumococcal vaccine (Pneumovax immunization)?
What would cause a dry mouth (xerostomia) in an elderly woman with lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and only medication is digoxin?
Can you use follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) as an indicator of whether you are giving adequate estrogen (Premarin) as hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in menopause?
What are the causes of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH)?
How do you treat dyshidrotic eczema (also known as dyshidrosis or pompholyx)?
If a patient tries to give blood and tests positive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), will the blood bank notify the patient?
What is the reference to the article from tertiary center X on patient Y's cutis aplasia?
How often should someone have tonometry as a screen for glaucoma?
How do you treat the diarrhea that can come from diabetic neuropathy?
What should you do at the time of delivery if the partner of a pregnant patient develops genital herpes?
Why does alkalinizing the urine help in patients with rhabdomyolysis?
What is an appendix epididymis and how would you know that's what it is by palpation?
Is there a drug interaction between indomethacin and captopril?
What is Dr. X's treatment regimen for chronic vulvar pruritus (kraurosis vulvae, lichen simplex atrophicus)?
How do you do a Cortrosyn (cosyntropin, ACTH) stimulation test to diagnose Addison's disease?
What is the Jendrassik maneuver?
Are nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs used for the inflammation of renal stones?  Apparently urology clinic does that at Hospital X.
If a patient has a low-density-lipoprotein-cholesterol of 199 but lipid risk ratios in the desirable range, is that acceptable?
What is the dose of Vi-Daylin F/ADC + Fe (vitamin drops) for infants?
Does saw palmetto work for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH)?
What percent of women on Norplant get irregular bleeding, amenorrhea, and so on?
Is it the progesterone or the estrogen that varies with the triphasic pill?  What's the rationale?
What foods contain Vitamin B6 (pyridoxine)?
What should you do about a borderline positive treadmill (GXT)?
What should you do with AGUS (atypical glandular cells of undetermined significance)?
What is the significance of premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) during an exercise challenge test?  This patient had the same number at rest though.
What causes a low serum phosphorus (hypophosphatemia)?
A 20-year-old woman has a four-month history of diarrhea and cramps after she eats.  She gets shaky before she eats. Could this be due to intestinal hormones or vasoactive intestinal peptide?
Is prostate cancer hereditary?
Are beta blockers contraindicated in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis, IHSS)?
What is the full reference for the uniform requirements for manuscripts in Annals of Internal Medicine?
What is egophony?  What are the definitions of the other lung sounds like pectoriloquy, ronchi, rales, crackles, and so on?
What are the indications for and dose for ticlopidine (Ticlid), Plavix (clopidogrel) and aspirin for prevention of transient ischemic attack and stroke?
How do you decide who needs to be admitted to rule out myocardial infarction (MI) in patients who present to the emergency room with atypical chest pain?
Can the HDL (high-density-lipoprotein) cholesterol be low normally if the total cholesterol is low?
What is Proshield?
Should we be giving the pneumococcal vaccine to babies?
What screening should be done for a patient with a family history of colon cancer?
What is the procedure of choice to diagnose gallbladder disease -- not just stones, but nonfunction too -- ultrasound, oral cholecystogram,  CT (computed tomogram)?
How do you treat bronchiectasis?
What postpartum follow-up on the mother should you do if she had gestational diabetes (GODM)?
Does the serum cholesterol go down with acute illness?  Is it worth getting on hospitalized patients?
What is the evidence that bupropion works for depression and what is the dose?
What is a list of things that are easy to forget to do in obstetric care and when admitting a patient in labor?
What is the reference to that article that said to use estrogen even if after 20 years of menopause?
How soon after a vasectomy is it okay to have intercourse?
What is the upper limit of normal for the QRS duration?
What stage colon cancer is it if there is extension to pericolonic fat but not lymph nodes?
What do actinic keratoses look like?
What intravenous (IV) antibiotic should you give to an inpatient with a cat bite or dog bite?
Can Depo-Provera cause pelvic pain (pelvic cramping)?
Is it okay to just prescribe Viagra (sildenafil) for erectile dysfunction?  What are legitimate indications and what are the side effects?  What is the dose?  What are contraindications?  How effective is it?
What should you do if a small lung nodule is noted on computerized tomography (CT) scan?
On a treadmill, what is a normal rate-pressure product and what does the rate-pressure product mean?  What does the FAI (functional aerobic impairment) mean?
What would cause failure to thrive in a breast fed infant?  Does some breast milk have insufficient calories?  What to do if mother says milk supply is inadequate?
What could cause opisthotonus (hyperextension of the neck) in an infant?
What is a basic classification of lung cancer?
What were the circumstances of the recent deaths reported with sumatriptan (Imitrex)?
How do you prescribe the new drug Propecia for baldness (and minoxidil)?
How do you treat a quadriceps muscle contusion and what is the name of that disease that involves ectopic calcium deposits in the quadriceps?
Is chronic use of cephalosporins, such as to treat a chronic infection or acne, associated with serious long-term side effects?
What was the reference to that article about giving a prescription for an antibiotic that the patient would agree to fill only if they get worse or don't get better?
What evaluation should diabetics have at every clinic visit or other periodic evaluation?
How much bicarbonate should be added to Xylocaine to buffer it to make the injection less painful?
Can old age alone cause weight loss?  How should you work up weight loss?
What are the clinical features of Wernicke's encephalopathy and Korsakoff's psychosis?
Should you treat an asymptomatic urinary tract infection in a 68-year-old woman?
Is it okay to use a beta blocker with clonidine?
How does the IgG (immunoglobulin G) synthesis rate on cerebrospinal fluid help determine if systemic lupus erythematosus involves the central nervous system?
Is an absent right pectoralis major muscle described as a congenital anomaly?
How do you do a sweat chloride test using pilocarpine iontophoresis?
Do opioids (narcotics) work for chronic pain?
How do you treat hidradenitis suppurativa?
What is the diagnostic meaning of various tattoos?  Specifically, a tear drop on the cheek and a cross in the web space between the thumb and index finger?
Is it okay to take cafergot if you are breast feeding?
Are there any tests or protocols to assess someone's ability to drive safely?  (driving assessment)
What effect does wine intake have on lipids?
At what age should you recommend that a baby be weaned from a bottle to a cup?
What is Zoloft (sertraline)?  It may be an antidepressant similar to Prozac.
How should you examine for jugular venous distension and what is normal?
What is the differential diagnosis of delirium and how do you work it up?
Is there a depo form of intramuscular Haldol?  Patient is getting 25 milligrams every 3 weeks.  Could it cause edema?
What could cause acute massive swelling of the tongue?
How do you treat hemolytic uremic syndrome if you diagnose it?
Can fever be a result of hives (urticaria)?
What is the new (3 hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A)  HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (Lipitor, atorvastatin) that's supposed to be so effective and what is the dose?
What should you do about a Grade 1 or 2 systolic heart murmur in an otherwise healthy newborn?
How do you diagnose Herpes simplex conjunctivitis?
What was the reference to that JAMA article on management of dysfunctional uterine bleeding?
What effect would hemolysis have on the serum cholesterol level?
What is the risk of Down syndrome at various maternal ages?
What are the indications for urology referral in someone with an acute kidney (ureteral) stone?
If the mother of a teenage girl says she's worried that her daughter may be on drugs because her pupils are dilated and she acts drugged and wants to know what to do, what should you tell her?
What is the dose of penicillin for streptococcal sore throat?
How do you treat generalized anxiety disorder?  Can you use a selective-serotonin-reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)?
What would cause a low maternal serum AFP (MSAFP, maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein)?
What is the differential diagnosis of a lupus-like butterfly rash on the face?
How long should you give prophylactic colchicine once it is started after an acute attack of gout?
What is the cheapest anticholesterol agent (lipid-lowering agent)?  Is there any reason not to always use it instead of the others?
What would cause transverse nail ridging in a 31-year-old woman on her thumbnails?  (photo taken)
Does a child with pneumonia on chest x-ray need a follow-up x-ray to document clearing?
What should you do if the low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) and total cholesterol are normal, but the high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) is low and the triglycerides are high?
How good is the evidence that cimetidine (Tagamet) is effective for warts?
What are the indications for the Lyme disease vaccine and how do you give it?
Do the same types of human papilloma virus that cause condylomata also cause cervical carcinoma?
What would cause painful white cold fingers when the weather turns cold?
How much potassium should you put in replacement intravenous (IV) fluid in a child or baby?
Should you automatically order the free prostate-specific antigen (PSA) or wait to see if the total prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is high?  What are normal values, cost of test, how to order?
What are the head exercises you can do for treatment of benign positional vertigo?  What is the treatment?
Is it normal for adults to lose height (stature) as they grow older?
What are the side effects of amiodarone?
Do you need to be on a special diet before you get a 24-hour urine for vanillylmandelic acid (VMA), catecholamines, and metanephrines?
How would you treat heavy dysfunctional uterine bleeding (large clots, normal pelvic exam) in a 49 year-old woman acutely?
What are the CAGE (cut-down, annoyed, guilt, eye-opener) questions?
If someone has both mosaicism and punctation on colposcopy, which is the worst lesion; ie, which should be biopsied?
What is the new test to diagnose Legionnaires disease?
If a patient's creatinine clearance goes from 100 to 90 to 80, is that a significant trend?  Or can't you answer because only one patient?
Should you give a full series of tetanus shots to an adult who does not know their immunization history?
What are the causes of an elevated white blood count (WBC, leukocytosis, neutrophilia)?
If you have a high thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) and low free thyroxine (T4), do you need to do any workup like thyroid antibodies or can you just treat?  Consider temporary condition like thyroiditis?  Follow them up for regaining thyroid function?
What dose of captopril should you use in a diabetic with microalbuminuria?
How do you treat a chronic (candida, monilia) paronychia?
How do you differentiate a basal cell carcinoma from sebaceous hyperplasia on inspection?
What would cause trouble localizing sounds, even when the hearing itself is normal by pure tone audiogram?
At what point in the development of a research idea should the study be submitted for institutional review board approval?
What is Sperling's sign (Sperling's maneuver)?
What causes swimmer's itch?
What are the ABCD's of malignant melanoma recognition?
What can you give someone to make their periods (menses) stop (cause amenorrhea) if they want to stop them for convenience?  (for example, paraplegic woman)  Also how to delay period for honeymoon, et cetera?
What should you do if you have a patient with domestic abuse?
Is a positive Hallpike maneuver necessary to make the diagnosis of benign positional vertigo?
What would cause clear fluid coming from a vasectomy wound after the vasectomy is completed but before the skin is closed or dressing applied?
Why do elderly people sometimes get disoriented, confused, agitated shortly after hospital admission?  Is it latent Alzheimer's disease?
How likely is it to have no fever in an elderly debilitated person with pneumonia?
Are people with Fragile X syndrome sterile (male or female)?  What kind of genetic counseling should they have?
What antibiotics can you use for prophylaxis of recurrent urinary tract infection (UTI) in someone who is allergic to sulfa?
What fetal surveillance should be done in a post-term pregnancy and how should you manage it?
Is mint snuff better than chewing tobacco or tobacco snuff?
How do you write intravenous (IV) orders for maintenance and replacement fluids for kids?
What is the antibiotic of choice for acute and chronic sinusitis?
Is there an association between HLA-B27 and iritis?
How does sepsis change the values on a chemistry panel?
Is a history of carcinoma of the cervix a reason not to give postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy (estrogen, Premarin)?  What are the contraindications to hormone replacement therapy?
What is the dose of Cipro for traveler's diarrhea?
What is the current protocol for management of abnormal Papanicolaou smears and colposcopy?
What is the treatment for hyperthyroidism due to Graves' disease?
How do you instruct a patient on doing Kegel exercises?
At what gestational age (how young) is it not very useful to do a fetal biophysical profile and nonstress test because gestational age is too low?
What do flattened T waves in all precordial leads mean in a 54-year-old woman with hypertension and potassium of 3.3 milliequivalents/liter?
In someone with ulcerative colitis, how often should you do screening colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy?
Should a 47-year-old purified-protein-derivative (PPD) reactor (not converter) have a chest x-ray?, take isoniazid?, for how long?
Is there an organized way to look at a fetal heart rate monitoring strip?
What would cause a urine sample to be loaded with tyrosine crystals in a 21-month-old with failure to thrive?
What is gemfibrozil and what is it good for (being used in a patient with high triglycerides)?
How do you use Tegaderm or Duoderm for bed sores (decubitus ulcers)?
What is paregoric?
How should you dose Coumadin on someone you are just starting out on Coumadin (warfarin)?
What is Child's classification of cirrhosis?
What are the Ranson criteria for acute pancreatitis?
Can Interferon cause a cough?
What is Rovsing's sign?
What should you do with a bigeminal or trigeminal uterine contraction pattern?
Why should you avoid sunlight if you're on amitriptyline?  That was written on a patient's pill bottle.
How do you work up and treat pruritus ani (perianal dermatitis)?  What are the causes? (pruritis ani)
How do you differentiate ventricular tachycardia from supraventricular tachycardia with aberrancy?
How do you interpret various levels of blood alcohol?
What are the indications for biphosphonates such as Fosamax in the treatment or prevention of osteoporosis?  Can you give it to someone already on estrogen?
How often do you need to check a patient's eyes if they are on lovastatin (Mevacor)?
What is time series analysis and how do you use it?
What would cause a low estriol but normal MSAFP (maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein) on triple screen?
Do you need parental consent to insert a Norplant in someone under age 18?
What is Fragile X syndrome?  Related to 49 year-old patient of Dr. X with colitis and mental retardation.
Will trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole work for Group A beta hemolytic streptococcal sore throat?
Where would a stroke be located that involved a right facial palsy and dysarthria?
What is nephrocalcinosis?
What does a short run of ventricular tachycardia mean on treadmill testing (GXT)?  What do premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) mean?
What should you do about asymptomatic gallstones?
What is the best way to treat multiple plantar warts?
What are the relative costs of various diet pill regimens with fenfluramine (Pondimin), Phentermine (Fastin, Adipex-P) and dexfenfluramine (Redux)?
How should you treat osteoporosis in a man, caused by chronic steroid use?
What was that reference that said you didn't need to get a blood culture if the fever wasn't at least a certain level?
Should aspirin be given prophylactically in someone with pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH) or a history of pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH) to prevent preeclampsia?
What are the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV) criteria for obsessive compulsive disorder?
What would cause a red (ruddy) face or facial flushing and how should you work up facial flushing?
Who should get carotid endarterectomy?  What are the indications?
Are there any guidelines on indications for tonsillectomy in adults?
What is the reference to that article on what to do with abnormal liver function tests in apparently normal people?  How do you work them up?
What causes a high ferritin with normal iron and TIBC (total iron binding capacity)?
How do you rule out or diagnose a patient who thinks they may have von Willebrands' disease?
What labs should you get to monitor someone with congenital adrenal hyperplasia?
Is it okay to use the nicotine patch in someone with known coronary artery disease?
In a premature infant (35-weeks gestation) should you use a preemie (premature) growth chart and if so, for how long?  If you use a regular growth chart how do you correct for the prematurity?
What did Dr. X's summary of toxicology say about antidepressant overdose?
Does progesterone (Depo-Provera) cause acne?
What is Phoma species on a fungal culture report of a toenail?
How do you treat resistant Tinea versicolor?
How are standard errors, standard deviations, and variances related to each other?
What is Rovsing's sign?
What besides Coumadin and liver disease can prolong the prothrombin time?
How should you work up and treat a 40 year-old woman with irregular vaginal bleeding?
What does Axis I, Axis II, and so on mean in a psychiatric impression, (psychiatric diagnosis)?
How long is it before an infant diagnosed with respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) can go back to day care?
What are the indications for doing a thrombectomy or using thrombolytics for a patient with a deep-vein thrombosis (DVT)?
Should an incontinent nursing home patient with an otherwise asymptomatic urinary tract infection be treated with antibiotics?
Is Danocrine (danazol) helpful for the pain of fibrocystic breast disease?
If someone has an artificial heart valve and their child has documented streptococcal sore throat, do they need to be treated with penicillin?
Child with unusual behavior.  Kissing sister on neck.  Touches father's girlfriend on breasts and babysitter on breasts.  Is this a sign of sexual abuse?
If the triple screen or maternal serum alpha fetoprotein (MSAFP) is normal in a woman over age 35, and she refuses amniocentesis, should she have a fetal anomaly scan (ultrasound) at 18 to 20 weeks anyway or at least be offered one?
What does "proximal escape of the primary peristalsis" mean on an esophagram report?
How long should you wait before getting an x-ray of a fracture to check for healing (callus) and when do you need to worry about nonunion?
How do you interpret the international normalized ratio when adjusting the Coumadin dose?
Can stethoscopes act as fomites?  Can they transmit infection from one patient to another?
What should you do if the Papanicolaou smear report says adequate for interpretation, no tumor cells, but white blood cells obscure much of the cellular detail?
How do you give an amnioinfusion?  What solution?  How fast?
How do you check for coronary artery spasm during cardiac catheterization?  Inject ergonovine?
What is Lantus insulin (insulin glargine)?
If someone has had head and neck radiation as a child (for example, for acne or hypertrophied adenoids) what surveillance do they need for thyroid cancer?
What is sotalol?
How do you workup microscopic hematuria in an adult?
What are the different Tanner Stages?
How long after menopause doesn't it do any good to start estrogen to prevent osteoporosis?  Is there a time limit for preventing osteoporosis?
Can herpes zoster involve both sides of the head?  Can a few other scattered lesions on the trunk occur normally?
What does Dr. X say about treatment of hyperlipidemia?
What do you do if you treat a pneumonia and it doesn't get better?
How do you make the diagnosis of asthma if a patient is reluctant to have the diagnosis for insurance reasons?
How do you treat hyperkalemia (elevated potassium), and how do you look for the cause?   How do you treat chronic hyperkalemia? (hyporenin-hypoaldosterone, Type 4 renal tubular acidosis)
What would make the positive control on a guaiac card not turn positive with the developer?
When should an infant with hydroceles be referred for surgery?  (how old)
How do you tell if someone has acute tubular necrosis (ATN) versus just prerenal oliguria and azotemia?
Can a blood transfusion cause an elevated white count (WBC)?
How often can you safely inject steroids into someone's knee for osteoarthritis?
How do you make the diagnosis of lichen planus if you suspect it?
Are there any guidelines for when to order a head computerized tomography (CT) in a patient with a head injury?
Is smoking one pack per day a contraindication to hormone replacement therapy?
If you have an adult with bright red rectal bleeding or a normal appearing stool that is guaiac positive, should you do a flexible sigmoidoscopy (with or without barium enema to follow) or should you just refer right off the bat for total colonoscopy?
What are the risks of recurrent seizures if you stop seizure medications after a prolonged seizure-free period?
What should you do if an obstetric patient at 27 and 5/7 weeks notices decreased fetal movement?
What causes jugular venous distension besides congestive heart failure?
What would cause scrotal or testicular pain after vasectomy and how do you treat it?
Can a low Vitamin B12 level cause dementia?
When is it all right not to convert atrial fibrillation (normal rate, no congestive heart failure)?
Does it make any difference whether someone has their shirt on with a rolled up sleeve when you take their blood pressure?
What is the treatment for exercise-induced asthma?
What could cause fasciculations in the calf?
Can upper gastrointestinal bleeding cause a leukocytosis?
What would cause difficulty in keeping clean in perianal area after a stool?
Can chronic alcoholism cause diarrhea?  What is the treatment?
What are the causes of chronic perianal dermatitis in kids?  What is in Mycolog II cream?
How long into the course of infectious mononucleosis is it before the Monospot turns positive?
How do you work up hirsutism?  Do you need to order all the androgens or can you screen with one?
How do you treat a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation?
How often do you need to get complete blood counts (CBC's) when someone is on Ticlid (ticlopidine)?
Does Vancenase AQ cause hypertension?
Are there any causes of a cervical hood besides fetal exposure to diethylstilbestrol?
What would cause unexpected urobilinogen on a urinalysis?
Are the new birth control pills from Ortho (Ortho-Cept, Ortho Tri-cyclen, Ortho-cyclen) better than the usual minidose pills?
Can hepatitis cause a pleural effusion or pneumonia?
What does VVIR stand for in terms of pacemakers?
Is Entamoeba hartmanni in the stool pathogenic?
What is the best treatment for menorrhagia in a 32-year-old with periods getting steadily heavier but normal pelvic exam?
What is considered abnormal for an orthostatic (postural) blood pressure drop?
What are the 5 P's of acute arterial occlusion?
How should you change the birth control pill (oral contraceptive) if someone gets amenorrhea on it?
What are the indications for getting an alpha fetoprotein (AFP)?  Is it helpful for chronic hepatitis?
Is there such a thing as chronic compartment syndrome?
What should you do with a green nipple discharge?
What is the significance of an asymptomatic abdominal bruit over the left renal artery in a 48 year-old woman?
What is the currently recommended treatment for vaginal candidiasis?
What should you do if the umbilical cord fails to separate after 4 weeks?
How do you do a Tzanck prep and how do you interpret it?
What are the indications for fine needle aspiration versus regular biopsy of breast masses?
In a patient who had a transient ischemic attack (TIA), how narrow should the carotid be before you recommend carotid endarterectomy?
At what level on a vision screen should you refer a child with less than 20/20 vision?
What is the reference to that algorithm for diagnosing a pulmonary embolus and what is the strategy?
Do we need to worry about thrombocytopenia or other side effects in someone on long term heparin?
What are normal pressures on a cardiac catheterization?
What is focal sclerosing adenosis on mammogram and can it cause breast pain?
What should you do about the pancytopenia that can occur with alcoholism besides just withdrawing alcohol?
What is a good way to remember which kind of face presentation will deliver vaginally?
What is a basic workup for dementia to rule out other causes besides Alzheimer's?
Does the patient need to be fasting when you check the HDL (high-density-lipoprotein) and LDL (low-density-lipoprotein) cholesterol?
Is there a way to give Augmentin so the child gets about 80 milligrams per kilogram per day of amoxicillin and about 10 milligrams per kilogram per day clavulanic acid?
How do serum estrogen, progesterone, luteinizing hormone (LH), and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels vary during the menstrual cycle?
What causes delayed gastric emptying (gastroparesis) besides diabetes?
What is a normal body mass index?
What tests should be done to screen for immune deficiency?
What is the reference to that article on the consensus statement about treatment and prevention of kidney stones (renal lithiasis)?
What is the pharmacy number and the regimen for micronized progesterone in PMS (premenopausal syndrome)?
How should you anticoagulate someone in atrial fibrillation before you cardiovert them?
Can taking vitamin B12 predispose to gout?
How do you correct for hypoalbuminemia when you have a low serum calcium?
Is it okay to use tricyclic antidepressants along with benzodiazepines?
How do you use labetalol to acutely lower blood pressure?
What is Zofran (ondansetron)?
What is the captopril DTPA (diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid) study and how is it done?  Hospital X does not know what DTPA stands for even after looking at the package insert. DTPA is the isotope.
What test should be ordered to rule out mesenteric artery insufficiency?
How do you do a tilt table test to workup syncope?
Is it okay to Baptize a human immunodeficiency virus positive (HIV-positive) person?  Any special precautions for the one doing the Baptizing?
Why do you need to get an Anti-HBc (hepatitis B core antibody) instead of just hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) in someone suspected of having acute hepatitis?
How do you prevent calcium containing kidney stones?
What are the causes of hydramnios?
At what age should you start screening adults for high cholesterol (hyperlipidemia)?
How would you treat a patient with a phobia for getting into cars or boats?
If a patient is referred by an optometrist because of small retinal hemorrhages, what workup should be done for systemic disease?
Should elderly people in the hospital get deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis with low-dose heparin even if they don't have a recognized indication?
How do you make the diagnosis of diabetes insipidus?
What is the bottom line in terms of estrogen hormone replacement therapy since that New England Journal of Medicine article came out (Colditz, et al N Engl J Med. 332:1589)
What is the best treatment for fungal external otitis?
Do fluctuations or abnormal levels of estrogen and progesterone (such as with menopause or cyclic changes) cause emotional upset?
How do you treat an ankle sprain?
What were Dr. X's recommendations for treatment of hypertrophied, lichenified thickened skin on the feet and cracked, fissured heels?
How much does Hytrin cost?  Is there a generic?
If someone has amenorrhea and is overweight with a male escutcheon, do they need to be evaluated for polycystic ovary syndrome?  In whom should you suspect polycystic ovaries and how do you make the diagnosis?
What are the indications for a 24-hour blood pressure monitor?
Should adults with two or more cardiac risk factors take aspirin?
What should you do in terms of the asthma treatment protocol when you don't know what the personal best peak flow is and the patient comes in symptomatic?
How do you treat congestive heart failure when you also have chronic renal failure?
Is the contraceptive sponge just as effective as the diaphragm?
Can anorexia nervosa cause autonomic neuropathy?
How do you diagnose and treat chronic compartment syndrome?
What are guidelines for care of asthma in children?
A 34-year-old woman with endometriosis and on progesterone and with increased iron (approximately 230).  Will this hurt her liver, heart, endocrine system?
What causes and how do you treat uric acid bladder stones?
How do you make the diagnosis of Sjogren's Syndrome?
What should you do about a small focus of metaplasia seen on a stomach biopsy?
What is the best way to treat the vomiting and diarrhea associated with dysmenorrhea?
What should you do if you have periodic late decelerations but normal variability?
What is the difference between lichen sclerosis and lichen simplex?
How long should you treat someone with acute sinusitis?
Is there any treatment for vasomotor rhinitis?
What order should the various colposcopy procedures be done?  What are the possible abnormal findings?  What percent acetic acid?  When cytobrush?  Bethesda system translation?  Transformation zone versus squamocolumnar junction?
Is there anything in the literature on elbow fat pad signs?
What drugs are contraindicated in the treatment of congestive heart failure in the face of aortic stenosis?
At what level of serum uric acid should you treat asymptomatic hyperuricemia?
What should you do if you get a blood culture on a febrile child, send them home because they don't appear toxic, but the next day the blood culture is positive?
What cranial nerve is responsible for upward gaze?
What are the clinical features and treatment of floating rib or overlapping rib syndrome?  (Slipping rib syndrome)
How do you treat refractory heel pain syndrome?
What would cause an orange stain (brick dust) in the diaper of a newborn (nurse thought it was urate crystals in the urine)?
What is the difference between ischemia, injury, and infarction on the electrocardiogram (ECG)?
What causes reactive arthritis?
Do any of Dr. X's studies challenge the Kansas City study which found an association between labor epidural anesthesia and cesarean section?
Can anemia or acute gastrointestinal blood loss elevate the lactate dehydrogenase? (Patient also had a transfusion reaction. LDH1 (lactate dehydrogenase1) was normal so not heart)
What immunizations does someone need if they have had or are going to have a splenectomy and how often should they be repeated?
How do you treat neonatal acne?
How do you give local anesthesia (nesicaine, xylocaine, lidocaine) for endometrial biopsy (Pipelle) or endocervical curettage (ECC)?
Can you give omeprazole (Prilosec) for longer than 12 weeks if it's the only thing that works for a patient with reflux esophagitis?  Do you need to follow the serum gastrin?
How well studied is the computer program that the University genetics people use to figure the risk of Down syndrome based on the triple screen?
What would cause an ulcer on the nasal septum?
Do thiazide diuretics cause hyperlipidemia?
How do you aspirate the hip joint?
Should we be getting umbilical cord gases on all deliveries?
What are the indications for tapping a pleural effusion or empyema associated with a pneumonia?
What is the reference to those articles by Dr. X on characteristics of an effective researcher?
How do you diagnose diabetes just based on a random blood sugar or a fasting blood sugar (diagnostic criteria for diabetes, definition of diabetes)?
If someone has a normal total cholesterol and normal low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol but a low high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, should they be treated with medication such as niacin?
What is the reference to the book or article that says you should not use words like "significant" except to refer to statistical significance?
If someone has premature rupture of membranes at 2:00 AM or 3:00 AM and no labor, is it okay for them to stay at home and come in later that morning or should they come in right away to be checked?
What would cause muscle pain in arms and legs and a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (100)?
What are the causes of and how do you work up a chronic cough in a 50-year-old obese woman?  (yellow sputum, one pack per month, possibly Pickwickian)
What are the causes of delirium and what is the workup?
What is the best way to avoid pain with cervical biopsies during colposcopy?  How to do endocervical curettage?
What was that Web address with the rules for purified-protein-derivative (PPD) reaction and isoniazid (INH) prophylaxis for tuberculosis?
What is the differential diagnosis of gynecomastia?
What are antithyroid microsomal antibodies and when should you order them and how do you interpret the results?
What does aortic stenosis do to the blood pressure?
How do you diagnose tracheomalacia?  What is the differential diagnosis?  What is the treatment?
What is occipital neuralgia?  How do you diagnose and treat it?
What are the signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency?
Does omeprazole come in intravenous form?
How long after a myocardial infarction do you get Dressler's syndrome?  (Patient X, 3 mos)
What is Type IV renal tubular acidosis and how do you treat it (hyporenin hypoaldosterone)?
What is the differential diagnosis of aphthous stomatitis (mouth ulcers) in a child?
What do you do if a prenatal patient tests positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)?
Can amoxicillin or trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole cause staining of a child's teeth?
Is it okay to give the oral polio vaccine (OPV) and other live vaccines to a baby if the mother is pregnant?
Does a family history of breast cancer alter screening mammogram recommendations?
How does the mnemonic Kentucky and Tennessee work with S3 and S4 gallops?
What is an incidence rate ratio?
What is the needle stick protocol to prevent human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and Hepatitis B?
What is a "low renin, low aldosterone state"? (hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism, Type 4 renal tubular acidosis)
What does "oropharyngeal swallow on lateral view shows penetration aspiration on liquid swallow" mean on an esophagram report?
How do you treat intrapartum suspected chorioamnionitis (fever in labor)?
Can dapsone cause a drug fever?
What are the important clinical differences between Prozac, Zoloft, and Paxil?
Can blood substitutes be made immediately available for obstetric patients who are Jehovah's witnesses?
How important is it to use an eye patch for a corneal abrasion (foreign body)?  What ointment should be used?
How would you treat a 49-year-old woman with suspected dysfunctional uterine bleeding (anovulatory bleeding)?
What is a sliding hiatus hernia?
How do you treat Helicobacter pylori?
Are there any important differences among the three new oral contraceptives (Ortho-Cept, Ortho-Cyclen, Ortho-Tri-Cyclen)?  What about safety?
What would cause a patient's index finger to gradually start twisting counterclockwise?
What is cerebral palsy?  How do you diagnose and treat it?  What is the etiology?  What is the pathogenesis?
What is Dakin's solution?
Why do you need to get NAPA (N-acetyl-procainamide) levels as well as procainamide levels?
Now that intravenous hydralazine is not available, how should we treat hypertension in labor?
Can you get a fever from a resolving post-operative ileus?
Is zinc oxide paste a reasonable treatment for generic diaper rash and how do you prescribe it?
What is the protein you can test to see if someone has type 1 or type 2 diabetes?
What do you do if someone is late for their Depo-Provera shot?  How late can they be and still not get a pregnancy test?
Is it normal to have inverted T waves in Lead 3?
Is benazepril (Lotensin) just as good as captopril and enalapril for congestive heart failure?
How do you work someone up for a hypercoagulable state?  (Prompted by woman with two deep vein thromboses in the past)
What should you do about an ovarian cyst (corpus luteum cyst) in a perimenopausal woman?
What would cause a jaw tremor in an elderly woman?
How do you dose Glucophage XR (extended-release metformin)?
What would cause fatigue, shoulder aching, intermittent fevers, and hematuria in a 45 year old woman?
What is the sensitivity of the prostate specific antigen?
What would cause a red indurated isolated area on the lower leg?  (panniculitis?, Erythema nodosum?)
How do you dose heparin for a known or suspected pulmonary embolus or deep-vein thrombosis (DVT)?
Is transdermal estrogen less likely to cause breast pain (mastodynia) than oral estrogen replacement therapy?
In a patient at term with premature rupture of the membranes (PROM) and an unfavorable cervix, not in labor, should you use oxytocin or prostaglandin gel or observation?
What is the bivariate normal distribution?
What diet should someone follow if they complain of flatulence?  What treatments are available for excess passage of bowel gas (flatulence)?
What is discriminant analysis (for example, D'Angelo LJ.  Obstet Gynecol. 1980;55:319-323)?
How should you interpret prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels when someone is taking finasteride (Propecia)?
How far forward is it normal for a coccyx to be angulated forward?  The patient's coccyx was acutely angled forward after a fall (< 90 degrees).
Can Premarin or Provera cause you to be extra sensitive to salt; that is, make foods taste saltier than they really are?
What does a classic growth curve look like for constitutional low weight and height in a child?  Can it start normally in infancy and then fall off?
Why is Opticrom still off the market?
What are the criteria that should be met before you decide to screen for a disease?
What is melanosis coli and what causes it and how should you treat it?
Should you use the first blood pressure or the second trimester nadir to compare later blood pressure elevations in pregnancy?
Why is it helpful to know both the percent and absolute CD4 (cluster of differentiation 4) count in an HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) patient?
What is Hytrin?
Can you tell the difference between wet rales and dry rales on physical examination?
Could an osteoarthropathy associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cause bilateral ankle pain?
What is NARES (nonallergic rhinitis with eosinophilia syndrome), when should you suspect it, how do you diagnose it?
Is there anything in the literature about the "spine sign" as a way to diagnose lower lobe pneumonia?
How do you go about getting or prescribing an enuresis alarm?
Do brown recluse spiders live as far north as Red Oak, Iowa?
After removing an adenomatous colonic polyp, how often should the patient have follow-up colonoscopy?
What are the indications for breast ultrasound as opposed to mammogram?  When should you get an ultrasound instead of a mammogram?  If it shows cysts, is it okay to do nothing further?  How many cysts should be aspirated?  If keep recurring, what then?
Is it safe to give influenza vaccine to a patient on Coumadin?
Can transient global amnesia have an aura similar to a migraine aura?
How do you run a nitroglycerine drip?
What is nedocromil sodium (Tilade)?  (Possibly similar to cromolyn sodium)
What would cause a normal free T4 (free thyroxine) with a high thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) in someone on thyroid replacement?
Can Nizoral (ketoconazole) cream be used to treat seborrheic dermatitis?
What percent of pregnant women have first trimester spotting without regard to outcome?  Dr. X says 50%.
If you want to do a thyroid scan for hyperthyroidism, what kind of scan should you do (technetium, I-125, I-131, and so on)?
What should you do about a thoracic aortic aneurysm in an elderly patient?
If you have someone with mild subclinical (chemical) hypothyroidism, should you start with a low dose of Synthroid (for example, 0.05 milligrams) and work up or just go straight to full replacement (0.1 to 0.15 milligrams) assuming a normal heart?
Are there any recent review articles on colposcopy and LEEP (loop electrosurgical excision procedure)?
Can oral iron cause a false positive Hemoccult (guaiac) test?
Doctor A has 100 patient-days in March and Doctor B has 150 patient-days in March.  Is there a significant difference?
What is the name of the systemic disease that gives brown lesions on the lips?
What is the reference to that patient education sheet on prostate specific antigen (PSA) screening?
What would cause calf pain in a 35-year-old woman with no history of trauma and no physical findings?
Can a patient have pneumonia even though the chest x-ray is normal?
Which tricyclics have decreased orthostatic blood pressure effects?
What do the tall peaked T waves of an acute myocardial infarction look like?  What else causes tall peaked T waves?
How do you diagnose gonorrhea pharyngitis?
How do you figure the mean blood sugar from the hemoglobin A1C (glycosylated hemoglobin)?
Why is there so much recent interest in magnesium levels?
Do hot tubs cause urinary tract infections?
When would you use gemfibrozil rather than an HMG (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl) coenzyme A inhibitor?
Can an intracerebral hemorrhage cause a fever?
What would cause decreased rectal sphincter tone but an intact anal wink and otherwise normal neurologic exam?
Can pneumonia make the LDH (lactate dehydrogenase) go up?
Is it ever helpful to alter the timing of when glipizide is taken (the way you would with insulin) to get the bedtime blood sugars down in diabetes?
Does bromocriptine cause hypertensive crisis and stroke?  Is it no longer recommended for lactation suppression?
What would cause multiple small pigmented nevi in a bunch?
What is the cubital tunnel syndrome?
Is rupture of membranes a contraindication to prostaglandin gel (for example, Cervidil)?
What are the latest recommendations about using prophylactic antibiotics for otitis media?
What is the difference between the Denver II and the regular Denver Developmental Screening Test?
What are the implications for the newborn when the mother has von Willebrand's disease?
Can myoclonus during sleep be a result of multi-infarct dementia?
What would cause breast pain (mastodynia) in a 44-year-old woman with desmoplasia on mammogram?  How do you treat mastodynia?
How do you fit a cervical cap?
Should I be using adapalene (Differin) instead of Retin-A for acne?  What is the place of adapalene in treatment of acne?
What do you do with someone who has 7 days of heavy bleeding with Norplant in for one year?
What is the name of the new cream you can use to treat genital warts (venereal warts, condylomata)?
If you treat a laboring patient for known or suspected Group B streptococcus, what should you do with the newborn?
Is it all right to switch suddenly from one tricyclic antidepressant to an equal dose of another antidepressant?
How long does it take for a clinically unimportant coronary lesion to become clinically important; that is, how long before repeating a catheterization showing minimal disease if the patient has worse symptoms?
How do you take an influenza culture?
Is there a particular fever pattern from central nervous system (CNS) damage, like a stroke?
What is a normal hemoglobin and hematocrit for an infant and young child?
What is the best treatment for restless legs syndrome?
Captopril has some side effect that other angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors don't have that made me think I should be using enalapril more.  What was the side effect?  (Maybe it was just that enalapril has a longer duration of action.)
What does the prenatal care checklist include?
What are the manifestations of polyarteritis nodosa and Wegener's granulomatosis and how do you tell them apart?  (This patient had pleural and pericardial effusions and peripheral neuropathy secondary to vasculitis.)
What is the topical antibiotic of choice for conjunctivitis?
Is diabetes a risk factor for carpal tunnel syndrome?
What would cause hyperreflexia in an otherwise healthy person?
How do you treat a nontoxic goiter?
What is D-dimer and what is it used for?
What is the diameter of a normal aortic root?  This patient's aortic root was 45 millimeters on echocardiogram (ECHO).
How do you write a prescription for cromolyn ophthalmic drops?
What are the causes of a dry mouth (xerostomia) in an adult?
When does the danger of intracranial bleeding go up with thrombocytopenia?  What are the indications for a platelet transfusion?
When you want to know the serum estrogen level, why do you get a follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)?
What is the reference to the directions that a husband should use for a precipitous emergency home delivery (unplanned)?
What is dysdiadokokinesis?
Should you screen someone for a berry aneurysm with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) if they have a family history of subarachnoid hemorrhage or intracranial aneurysm?
At what age do growing pains occur and what are the typical symptoms?
What should you do if you think you have someone with streptococcal sore throat who is resistant to penicillin?
What are the mnemonics to help remember what to ask about in depression?
How do you get a stress view of the ankle if you are worried about ankle mortise widening?
How do you do a circumcision with a Gomco clamp?
What are the seven levels of evidence (quality of evidence) when evaluating a medical research study?
What are references and a description of intestinal pseudoobstruction mentioned by Dr. X?
How good is the triple screen at predicting Down syndrome?
What is a normal heart rate for a newborn?
Should we be discontinuing the new oral contraceptives, the ones with the new progestins (desogestrel, desogen, and so on)?
Can human immunodeficiency virus cause adrenal insufficiency?
Is a Richard's screw the same thing as a compression screw?
What causes portal vein thrombosis and how do you treat it?
Has an autonomic neuropathy caused decreased gastrointestinal motility and dysphagia similar to patient X been described?
How can you do a screening motor exam of the hand?
Is there a bursa under the first metatarsal phalangeal joint?
How important is it to use Gastroccult rather than Hemoccult (guaiac) to test for occult blood in gastric secretions?
If someone has a history of preterm labor or preterm delivery, do they need any special monitoring or surveillance during the present pregnancy?
How do you do an intralesional injection for someone with pustular or cystic acne?  How do you inject one nodule?
Is it normal for some laboratory values to look worse before they look better in someone with alcoholic liver disease and big spleen after you take them off alcohol?
How do you prescribe the fat-blocker orlistat (Xenical)?
How long does it take to get frostbite at various temperatures and wind chill factors?
What is droperidol (Inapsine)?
How do you treat a tachycardia with a wandering atrial pacemaker (multifocal atrial tachycardia)?
What are the indications for getting a nortriptyline level?
How do you remove endocervical polyps?  What to do if there is bleeding?
Is the new blood sugar monitoring device (AtLast) that diabetics use on the forearm legitimate?
Is there any association between restless legs syndrome and spinal stenosis?
What is the drug of choice for enterococcus infections (not vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium)?
What did that recent New England Journal of Medicine article say about what types of fat are good for preventing coronary disease?
What does antimitochondrial antibody test for?  Primary biliary cirrhosis?
How do you treat phantom limb pain?
What is the best treatment for vaginal dryness after childbirth?
If someone is taking lovastatin and they get sore muscles but have a normal CPK (creatine phosphokinase), do you still need to worry about myositis from lovastatin?
How do you treat recurrent or persistent yeast (candida) vaginitis?
Is there any drug to decrease male sex-drive in a patient who requests it?
How should you interpret acetowhite epithelium that is in the columnar epithelium, clearly inside the squamocolumnar junction?
Is a history of pulmonary embolus a contraindication to hormone replacement therapy (postmenopausal estrogen)?
How would you counsel (genetic counselling) someone with beta thalassemia minor (trait)?
Which antihypertensives do not work as well in African Americans?
Are there any new treatments for COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) exacerbation?  What is the role of theophylline?  Pulmocare?
What are the side effects, contraindications, and dose of Antabuse?  What symptoms result from drinking alcohol while on Antabuse?
What are the indications for induction of labor for postdates pregnancy?
Can prolixin increase the serum prolactin level?
How do you do a modified Apt test for fetal hemoglobin where you put the sodium hydroxide directly on the bloody material on the diaper?
What is the postcholecystectomy syndrome?  What are the symptoms?  How are the symptoms different from dumping syndrome?  (Patient with epigastric pain when stomach empty since cholecystectomy; another patient with diarrhea.)
What is DDAVP (1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin) and how is it used to treat von Willebrand disease?
What is the difference between the Spearman and the Pearson correlation coefficient?
What would cause swelling of the parotid glands?
Is it true, as Dr. X says, that inhaled steroids should be used even in mild intermittent asthma to prevent loss of beta agonist reactivity?  If so should they be used continuously or intermittently?
What is the difference between a chalazion and a hordeolum?
What are Dr. X's vulvar hygiene recommendations?
In a small rural hospital, there are 100 admissions in March and 110 admissions in April.  Is this a significant difference?
How often should you check lab work on a patient taking griseofulvin?
What is corpora conduplicato (conduplicato corpore)?
What is a reference to n-of-one trials?
Is it contraindicated to give a beta blocker along with a calcium channel blocker?
What is the reference to the article that says dehydration and starvation in a comatose or demented patient does not cause suffering?
What does it mean if you have upsloping ST depression on an exercise tolerance test (GXT)?  What are the criteria for a positive test?
What does the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG) say we should do about toxoplasmosis?  A reference seems to indicate that the American College said all women should be screened for toxoplasmosis.
What are the criteria for Briquet's syndrome?
What would cause postprandial pain and explosive stools with mucus that relieves the pain only when eating out?
Is there such a drug as Lo-Estrin with iron?
What would cause a serum sodium of 199 in an asymptomatic person?  Is that compatible with life?
Is there any association between smoking cessation and depression; that is, can quitting smoking cause depression?
What should you do if you have poor variability but no periodic decelerations or other nonreassuring signs?
What are the causes of a pleural effusion?
What is the reference to iterative hypothesis testing in New England Journal of Medicine or JAMA?
What is the binomial distribution?
How do you calculate Montevideo units?
How do you workup an adult for acute diarrhea?
What is the best treatment for external otitis?
If an asymptomatic baby was born to a mother whose intrapartum vaginal culture was positive for Group B streptococcus, what should you do?
What would cause episodes of vertigo, headache, and sweating occuring for 5 to 10 minutes at a time?
Does the c-reactive protein go up with temporal arteritis or polymyalgia rheumatica?
What blood sugars should you try to achieve when treating a gestational diabetic?
How old should an adult male be before routine rectal exams should be done with physical examinations?
Are mexiletine levels commercially available or clinically useful?
What are the causes of isolated hypophosphatemia?  Can nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs cause hypophosphatemia?
What would cause a large posterior fontanelle?
How do you workup a kid with hematuria?
What would cause a low diffusing capacity in a 38-year-old woman with dyspnea on exertion?
Do angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors prolong survival if given routinely after a myocardial infarction?
If a patient has a pilonidal cyst that gets infected once and is drained, do they eventually need to have a definitive procedure to remove the cyst?
What is tenesmus?  What does the word mean?
What is glatiramer (Copaxone)?  A treatment for multiple sclerosis.
What are the indications for ribavirin in RSV (respiratory syncytial virus, bronchiolitis)?
What causes loss of libido in males and is there any treatment?
How long does it take the erythrocyte sedimentation rate to fall after the infection is getting better?  Does the fall in sedimentation rate lag behind clinical improvement?
Is there any way to stimulate appetite in cancer patients?
How do you treat a ruptured Baker's cyst (pseudothrombophlebitis)?
When should you worry about a high hematocrit in a newborn?  What is the definition of polycythemia in the newborn and what is the treatment?
How do you treat preterm labor?  What tests should be done during speculum exam?  What is the dose of Terbutaline for tocolysis in preterm labor (premature labor)?
What would cause a solitary rectal ulcer?
What causes pain on movement of the eyes and photophobia?
What is the standard workup for infertility and how do you use Clomid if the problem is anovulation?  Do you need to check urinary luteinizing hormone (LH) while using Clomid?
What is a "nested case-control study"?
How do you score the geriatric depression scale?
Should we be using terconazole vaginal cream rather than miconazole since terconazole is effective against Candida tropicalis?
What are Bleuler's A's of schizophrenia?
Do nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID's) cause hypertension?  How commonly?
Can Neurontin (gabapentin) be used for chronic pain?  Is it a legitimate treatment?  Any side effects to worry about?
Are decongestants helpful for the common cold?
What does it mean to have "shoulders" on a variable deceleration?
What is the effect of in-utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) on the male fetus?
Is softening of the cervix helpful in diagnosing preterm labor (apart from effacement and dilatation)?
Does hydrochlorothiazide cause gout or increased uric acid levels? Contraindicated in patients with gout?
What do elevated ST segments mean on an exercise tolerance test?
Is acyclovir ointment helpful to treat herpes labialis?  (HSV-1)
Is itraconazole safe and effective for onychomycosis?
Is the Atkins diet any good?  Is it safe?
Why is the respiratory drive of someone with COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) driven by pO2 rather than PCO2?
When someone has a high white count secondary to demargination versus infection is the differential any help?  Doctor X seemed to imply that with demargination the differential would remain normal rather than shift to the left.
What is Serzone (nefazodone) and when is it indicated?
Can hyperlipidemia cause thickening of the Achilles tendon?
Does grand multiparity protect against ovarian and endometrial cancer the same way that oral contraceptives do?
How can you tell if someone has had an adverse drug reaction?  What is the probability that the drug you think caused it really caused it?
What special precautions should you take with vaginal birth after cesarean (VBAC)?  Should you manually palpate the uterine scar after delivery?
What is the treatment for esophageal spasm?
What is the difference between antibiotic tolerance and resistance?
What are current recommendations for polio vaccine?
What is the difference in price and otherwise between Cardizem, Cardizem CD and Cardizem SR?
What would cause onycholysis and how do you treat it?
Is there anything in the literature about milk and molasses enemas?
Should someone with a midsystolic click but no murmur be on antibiotic prophylaxis for SBE (subacute bacterial endocarditis)?
What is the differential diagnosis of sialorrhea?
How do you differentiate prostatosis from prostatitis and how do you treat prostatosis?
What was the reference to that article on not needing to do a chest x-ray on all patients after thoracentesis?
What is the antibiotic of choice for postpartum endometritis?
Is there any reason to use captopril as opposed to other angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in diabetics with microalbuminuria?
How many weeks gestation does someone need to be before you would not try to stop preterm labor?
If someone continues with a pregnancy after first trimester bleeding, do they need any special surveillance?
Should the HDL (high-density-lipoprotein) cholesterol plus the LDL (low-density-lipoprotein) cholesterol equal the total cholesterol?
What are the components of a fetal biophysical profile?
What is the reference to that article showing that many people with colds have sinus disease?
How do you treat the four common kinds of headache?
Is herpes zoster contagious?  Should a pregnant woman avoid someone with Herpes Zoster?  Can you get a herpetic whitlow by touching someone with Herpes zoster?
How do you treat persistent yeast vaginitis?
In someone on thyroid replacement (or not on replacement), what does it mean to have a low thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) with a normal free thyroxine (free T4)?
Is Ticlid better than aspirin for stroke and transient ischemic attack (TIA) prevention?
Are there any new recommendations about infant feeding (nutrition) practices?
How should a woman with known diethylstilbestrol exposure be followed?  Iodine?  Colposcopy?
Is multiple sclerosis hereditary?
Does an LH:FSH (luteinizing hormone : follicle stimulating hormone) ratio of 3:1 or more indicate polycystic ovaries?  (mentioned by Dr. X)
What causes hypoalbuminemia and how do you treat it?
What kind of clavicle fracture should not be treated by a family physician and should be treated by orthopedist?
Is there any evidence that Atarax is better than other antihistamines for itching?
Which cranial nerve would make the palate raise asymmetrically when the patient says "Ahh"?
How should you work up someone who tried to give blood and has positive Hepatitis B core antibody?
What should you do about hyperplastic polyps?
In a patient with fibrocystic breast disease, you can't just keep biopsying masses that appear every time they appear.  How do you follow such patients?
Is 70% sorbitol a good treatment for constipation?
How do you work up someone with hyponatremia?
What tests should you do on someone with Raynaud's phenomenon to rule out a collagen disease?  What is the difference between Raynaud's phenomenon and Raynaud's disease?
Can a pulmonary embolus cause T-wave inversion and what electrocardiogram (ECG) changes would you expect?
Is there anything in terms of clinical features that distinguishes the headache and blurred vision of preeclampsia from other causes of headache and blurred vision?
How much does lovastatin (Mevacor) and other lipid lowering agents (for example, Lipitor) cost?
What is the usual classification of hip fractures?
Does progesterone cause vasoconstriction, thereby causing hypertension?
Are either Entamoeba hartmanni or Blastocystis hominis pathogenic in a patient with diarrhea?
How do you convert grams to millimoles and milliequivalents?
Can an acute pneumonia cause hypoalbuminemia?
What is regression to the mean?
How long is it acceptable to leave a kidney stone in the ureter with almost complete obstruction before trying to remove it?  Or with minimal obstruction?  When to check again?
What causes hand and foot paresthesias?  Can captopril do it?
How long should you keep someone anticoagulated after a successful cardioversion if they were anticoagulated before for the purpose of doing an elective cardioversion from atrial fibrillation?
If the Papanicolaou smear comes back low grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (SIL) should you do an immediate colposcopy or just repeat the smear in 4 months?
What is Cetirizine (Reactin)?
How do you treat refractory congestive heart failure?
What is the next step in the workup of a patient with a high free T4 (free thyroxine) and a low thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH)?
What is Ambien (zolpidem) and is it any good?  Is it okay to prescribe it chronically?
What are Michaelis-Menton kinetics?  May explain why small increases in Dilantin dose cause large increase in level.
Can you slow atrial fibrillation with Norvasc?
What does the JNC (Joint National Commission) say about which antihypertensive to start first (and what to add) in someone with no other illnesses or mitigating circumstances?
What are Alomide ophthalmic drops? (good for allergic conjunctivitis?)
Can Vitamin E be used as prophylaxis against coronary disease?  Is 400 International Units of Vitamin E per day too much?
If you decide to do prostate-specific-antigen (PSA) screening, when should you start and when should you stop and how often should you do them?
What should you do if a patient has heavy bleeding while on Depo-Provera?
Do you need to stop the valproate (Depakote) if the blood ammonia level is elevated?
How often should glucose be monitored in a baby born to a mother with gestational onset diabetes or other risk factor and how do you treat hypoglycemia in the newborn?
What is the reference to that article that said it was unnecessary to give one day of oral antibiotics before hospital discharge to a patient who had been receiving intravenous (IV) antibiotics for an infectious disease?
Would hyperventilating cause a low serum CO2 (bicarbonate)?  Or what would cause this unexpectedly?
What is the difference between short and long-term fetal heart rate variability and what is normal long-term variability?
How do you treat Hepatitis A?
How do you get a clean catch urine from an infant?
Which is better, Proscar or Hytrin, for benign prostatic hypertrophy?
How do you treat an acute myocardial infarction (MI) in the emergency room?  What things should be done?
Does bradycardia contribute to heart failure?  Is it an indication for pacemaker or stopping digitalis?
What was the reference to the New England Journal of Medicine article on intubating newly deceased patients?
How do you give an albumin infusion (such as for ascites)?
How much extra prednisone (steroids, corticosteroids) should you give someone under stress, or going to have major surgery, or trauma?
What should be included in a "sexually transmitted disease (STD) workup"?
What does PPHN stand for?  What does PFC stand for?
Who with vertigo, no hearing loss and no tinnitus needs workup for acoustic neuroma (for example, magnetic resonance imaging)?  How can you avoid an expensive workup and referral to otolaryngology with a patient with vertigo?
What is biliary gastritis (bile gastritis) and how do you treat it?
What is fluvoxamine (Luvox) and can it be used for depression as well as obsessive compulsive disorder?
Is vitiligo associated with any systemic diseases that you should look for in someone with lots of vitiligo?
What drugs and what dose can you use for otitis media prophylaxis?
What should you do if someone thinks they might have thalassemia trait and they are pregnant?
How do you diagnose and treat acute tubular necrosis (ATN)?
Should an adult woman with osteogenesis imperfecta be treated with a bisphosphonate or calcium or vitamin D?
What is the mechanism of edema in myxedema?
Is varicella (chickenpox) vaccine available?  What are the indications?  Is it to be used routinely in children?
If you are allergic to sulfa antibiotics, does that mean you are also allergic to sulfonylureas?
Should a patient with an acute kidney stone get prophylactic antibiotics to prevent infection, pyelonephritis?
Has the use of prophylactic heparin been studied to prevent pulmonary embolus in patients with congestive heart failure?
Are there any good reviews of management of rape in the emergency room?
What would cause a spontaneous pneumoperitoneum; that is, no perforated bowel, hysterectomy or exploratory laparotomy?
If a patient screens positive for possible alcohol abuse, what should you do next?
In general, what things should you think about when a patient is planning to travel to an undeveloped country?
What are the names and locations of the bursae around the knee?
How well established are Hemophilus influenza, Mycoplasma, and so on as causes of sore throat?
When someone is being followed on Synthroid, what blood test should be ordered to be sure they are on the right dose?
What is a good way to treat temper outbursts and anxiety in a mentally retarded adult?
Is keratoconus hereditary?
What is neutral fat and split fat on a stool sample stained with Sudan stain?
What is BOOP (bronchiolitis obliterans and organizing pneumonia)?
What is the dose of aspirin needed to prevent TIAs (transient ischemic attacks)?
What should you use for the "morning after pill" (also known as emergency contraception)?
What are the criteria for borderline personality disorder and what is the best way to deal with a patient with borderline personality disorder?
How do you treat ventricular tachycardia?
Can an acute pneumonia cause the serum bilirubin to go up?
Can vomiting cause hypokalemia?  How?
What do the new American College of Physicians guidelines say about treating a 60-year-old woman with a low density lipoprotein cholesterol of 170?
How do you work up an adult for chronic diarrhea?
Is Amaryl (glimepiride) better than other sulfonylureas for diabetes?
What are some checklists for admission orders for common diseases such as pneumonia and urosepsis in elderly patients?
What should you do if you have a newborn with a vesicular rash and you suspect herpes?
What is the differential diagnosis of left axis deviation?
What is the fractional excretion of sodium (FENa)?  How do you calculate it and what is it good for?
How should you work up vulvar leukoplakia (colposcopy, acetic acid, methylene blue, iodine, biopsy)?
Should a 6-week-old infant exposed to chicken pox in a sibling receive varicella-zoster immune globulin (VZIG) or acyclovir?
How do you convert pounds to kilograms and inches to centimeters?
How do you score the Beck Depression Inventory (Scale)?  What is considered "positive"?
Can Marfan's syndrome cause joint pathology (knees, hips)?
How do you distinguish persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN, persistent fetal circulation, PFC) from transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN, TTNB)?
How soon after exposure would you expect a test for HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) to be positive?  What is the window period?
What is the best way to treat ingrown toenail?  How do you destroy the nail matrix (bed)?  What are the indications for destroying the nail matrix?
What causes a "small population of reactive lymphocytes"?
If a 60-year-old man has a positive purified protein derivative ("quarter-sized"), negative chest x-ray, and received Bacille Calmette-Guerin vaccine (BCG) as a child, should he have further workup or treatment?
How many elevated blood pressures should you document before starting treatment for hypertension in adults?
How is a DEXA (dual energy x-ray absorptiometry) scan done to measure bone density (osteoporosis), and how do you interpret the results?
Are the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (for example, Prozac) helpful for chronic pain?  (Possible recent trial in New England Journal of Medicine)
What is the minimum dose of Provera (progesterone) that you should use if you are using it cyclically for hormone replacement therapy?
How do you treat diastolic dysfunction when seen on echocardiogram?
How often should you get liver function studies on a PPD (purified-protein derivative) converter receiving isoniazid?
How do you interpret a positive hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) with a negative hepatitis B surface antibody (HBsAb), positive core antibody (HBcAb)?  Should you check serologies or just enzymes and ultrasound?  Should he get Hepatitis B immunization?
How many alcoholic drinks per day is too many?  What is the definition of alcoholism?
What are guidelines for prophylactic antibiotics in a patient with orthopedic hardware especially regarding flexible sigmoidoscopy?
What workup, if any, is recommended (any official guidelines?) for single umbilical artery?
What is a normal opening and closing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure for a lumbar puncture?
What are the indications for growth hormone in a small child?
How should you rule out a thoracic aortic aneurysm or abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) in someone with a family history of abdominal aortic aneurysm?
How do you work up normocytic anemia?
Are calcium channel blockers contraindicated after acute myocardial infarction?
How do you treat hypermagnesemia?
What is the reference to that book that has a differential diagnosis of skin lesions according to location?
Should you treat a 37-year-old with a positive PPD (purified protein derivative), negative chest x-ray, no history of previous PPD?
What should you do if a patient comes after trying to give blood, saying they tested positive for Hepatitis C virus?
How do you interpret the draw-a-clock test after the patient draws it?
How clinically important is the interaction between oral contraceptives and antibiotics?  Does a patient on oral contraceptives with acne for whom you want to give tetracycline need to use an alternative method of contraception?
How long does benign positional vertigo usually last?
How good is the evidence that Karo syrup causes infant botulism?
What is in Midol and can it be taken with ibuprofen?
What is negative binomial regression and how do you use it?
What is euthyroid sick syndrome?  Is it an abnormal-lab problem only or a physiologic problem?  Is it a triiodothyronine (T3) problem?
Is an ascending aortic aneurysm a sign of syphilis?
Why was Felbatol (felbamate) taken off the market?
Can steroids cause an elevated blood urea nitrogen (BUN)?
How do you treat and prevent and what causes urethral, prostatic, seminal vesicle stones (calculi)?
Are stories in the newspaper reporting an increased risk of myocardial infarction from calcium channel blockers accurate?
What is Norvasc (amlodipine)?  Does it have any advantage over other calcium channel blockers?
What is the differential diagnosis of a patient with acute generalized rash and arthralgias?
How do you give magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) for preeclampsia?
In logistic regression, how to turn the coefficient of a continuous variable into a meaningful odds ratio?  Have coefficient for age but associated odds ratio (OR) is based on a 1-year increase in age, how to change it to a 10-year increase in age?
What are the indications for ketoconazole (Nizoral) cream?  Is it better for tinea manis than miconazole?
How big does a pneumothorax have to be before you have to insert a chest tube?  If you decide to treat expectantly, how fast does it resolve?
If you think someone has gallbladder disease, is it better to get an oral cholecystogram or an ultrasound?
What should you do when a patient has low testosterone and erectile dysfunction?  If you give testosterone injections, how should you follow the patient and when to get testosterone levels?
At what level of anemia (what hematocrit or hemoglobin level) would you transfuse a patient postpartum?
What are likelihood ratios?
Can Group B streptococcus cause urinary tract infections in adults?
Does vasectomy cause an increased chance of prostate cancer?
What are the indications for Sandostatin (somatostatin)?
What would cause a high blood urea nitrogen (75) with a near normal creatinine (1.5)?
Can soft tissue trauma or hematomas cause elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)?
How do you know when someone with heart failure should not receive digitalis because of diastolic dysfunction?
What is the reference for the article on arthrocentesis technique?
What is the antibiotic of choice for otitis media?
How long do you need to wait after giving the Hepatitis B vaccine to check the Hepatitis B surface antibody to see if the vaccine worked and what to do if it didn't work?
What is the differential diagnosis of leg and ankle edema and how do you workup someone with edema?
What would cause a metallic taste?
What is the reference to the article that says you should do a limited abdominal computerized tomography (CT) rather than an intravenous pyelogram to confirm an acute kidney stone?
Is there any interaction between warfarin (Coumadin) and the influenza immunization?
How do you deal with shoulder dystocia?
What does the United States Preventive Services Task Force say about skin cancer screening?
What would cause testicular pain with no physical findings (orchialgia)?
Can the influenza vaccine cause paresthesias or peripheral neuropathy?
When should you suspect disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and how do you treat it?
When you do cytologic followup of CIN I (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia I), what should you do if the first, second, or third follow-up Papanicolaou smear shows low grade SIL (squamous intraepithelial lesion)?  Repeat colposcopy? Return when?
Should we be giving Rotavirus vaccine?  Any side effects?
Is this an accurate formula to calculate low-density-lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol?  LDL = (total cholesterol - high-density-lipoprotein) - (0.2 * triglycerides)
Should a 77-year-old woman with herpes zoster on the face be treated with steroids to prevent post herpetic neuralgia?  How good is the evidence?
What causes hyperphosphatemia?
What is Mexitil (mexiletine)?
Do koilocytes on Papanicolaou smear or endocervical curettage (ECC) or colposcopy biopsy always come from human papilloma virus (HPV)?
How do you differentiate pseudoseizures from real seizures?
What should you do if there is a discrepancy between the Papanicolaou smear and the colposcopy biopsy results?
How much weight should a breast-fed baby gain in the first month?  How little of a weight gain is safe before giving up and going to formula feedings?
How should you evaluate gynecomastia in an adolescent boy?
What should you do if an obstetric patient has a family history of sickle cell trait (mother and father both have trait, brother has the disease)?
Who should be screened for hypomagnesemia?  What are the indications for ordering a serum magnesium?
What would cause a low platelet count (thrombocytopenia)?  Can alcoholism do it?
What is the role of the primary care physician in the care of the patient with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection?  What health maintenance issues should be addressed?
What is the name of that skin disease on the feet that produces moist skin and little holes?
What causes Chinese Restaurant Syndrome?
What is the usual presentation and epidemiology of corpus luteum cysts?
What are the indications for admitting a patient with a community-acquired pneumonia (hospital admission)?
What should you do with ASCUS (atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance) on a Papanicolaou smear during pregnancy?
What is a meaningful difference between two receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves when you are doing a sample size calculation?
What causes small unexpected pleural effusions on chest x-ray?
How do you explain and figure Kendall's tau?
How good is the evidence that topical anesthetics cause eye damage?
How do you inject the subacromial bursa (shoulder pain, rotator cuff)?
Is it standard of care to always get a follow-up chest film (x-ray) for an adult with pneumonia?
How do you use the Bishop score for cervical ripening?
How long should you wait to try to get pregnant again after a spontaneous abortion?
When should you get the electroencephalogram in a child admitted with a first seizure of unknown etiology?
What is Cozaar?
What should you do if the pathology report of a nevus shows "mildly dysplastic" or moderate dysplasia?  How should they be followed up?
What is the best way to make an elbow splint for an acute fracture?
When you do a temporal artery biopsy, how long a segment should you get, and should you do both sides right off the bat?
Should you expect the microalbuminuria to go away with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor treatment?
How do you treat someone with cervical spine arthritis with radicular pain and cervical spine series showing encroachment on neural foramina?
What does exercise induced left bundle branch block (LBBB) mean on a treadmill (GXT)?
What is the oxygen dissociation curve?
Is there an association between Crohn's disease and acute delusional psychosis?
Should we be using low molecular weight heparin instead of regular heparin to treat deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolus?
Are there any good review articles on the elbow fat pad sign?
What is the earliest gestational age you can do a nonstress test?
Are there any official recommendations about Hepatitis B vaccine in 3 - 5 year olds?
Can you develop a tolerance to Tylenol (acetaminophen) if you take it chronically for arthritis?
What is the currently recommended best treatment for bedwetting (enuresis)?
What would the likely diagnosis be of a patient with chronic urticaria/angioedema and an ANA (antinuclear antibody) of 1200 with speckled pattern?
What is the reference that said fatty infiltration of the liver is the most common cause of mildly elevated liver enzymes?
What are current recommendations for getting digoxin levels?
What is the latest you can do an abortion in Iowa?  At what stage do you switch from suction curettage to some other method?
How do you treat bloody diarrhea due to E. coli 0157:H7?
What is propafenone and how do you use it to treat atrial fibrillation?
What would cause palmar erythema and pain in a 60-year-old woman with a history of mouth cancer?
What kind of parathyroid hormone should you order if you want to rule out hyperparathyroidism?
When should you use carvedilol or other beta blockers (metoprolol) for congestive heart failure (CHF)?
What is the recipe for the gastrointestinal (GI) cocktail?
Is taste sensation carried in the 7th (facial) nerve (relevant to Bell's Palsy)?
What is fetor hepaticus and what does it smell like?
Is Mucomyst worthwhile to loosen respiratory secretions?
What should you do if the Papanicolaou smear shows "cellular changes associated with Herpesvirus present.  No tumor cells identified."?
A patient had biopsy proven human papillomavirus on her cervix.  How should you treat this?  How do you know when someone is cured so it's okay to have intercourse without a condom?
Can you give estrogen replacement therapy to someone with a history of deep-vein thrombosis (DVT)?
If a pregnant woman gets hand foot and mouth disease, can this hurt the fetus?
What are the symptoms of interstitial cystitis and how do you make the diagnosis?
How do you use Zofran for hyperemesis gravidarum?
Could mycoplasma present as hepatitis and pneumonia?
Are angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors contraindicated in hypertensive patients with a creatinine over a certain level?
How do you diagnose and treat a pediatric habit cough?
How do you work up someone with a transient ischemic attack (TIA)?
How do you diagnose and treat adult hyperactivity (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, ADHD)?
Is there such a thing as purulent rhinitis without sinusitis that requires antibiotics?
What is herpes gladiatorum?  How do you treat it?
What is the interquartile range and is it better to use the median and interquartile range versus the mean and standard deviation when you have a skewed deviation?
Can you use inhaled steroids for asthma below age 6 years?  A reference says no.  How do you administer them?  How do you give oral steroids for asthma or to help diagnose cough in a child?
A patient heard that nicotine patches can cause myocardial infarction.  Is this true?  She heard it on the news.
Does an obese postmenopausal woman need hormone replacement therapy?
Can colchicine be used as a diagnostic test for gout?  If someone has a dramatic response to colchicine will this serve as a test with similar specificity to seeing crystals on joint aspiration?
Can low serum testosterone cause fatigue?
What is the Delphi technique and how do you do it?
If the patient is already on an adequate dose of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor for hypertension, and they then develop new microalbuminuria, is there anything further to do?
What should be included in a preoperative evaluation (pre-op physical)?
Why would someone have a large abdomen with a large pannus but normal size arms and legs?
What would cause hot flashes in a 44-year-old woman who is still having periods?
Does it make any difference whether the total daily dose of methylprednisolone you give for COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) exacerbation is given every 12 hours or every 6 hours?
Can imipramine cause leukopenia (white blood cell count 3.8)?
Is Niferex (ferrous polysaccharide) any good?  (Any advantage over ferrous sulfate (FeSO4)?)
When is the onset of effectiveness when starting someone on Depo-Provera?
Is there any good evidence for the use of simethicone drops for infants with colic?  They use it "all the time" in Germany.
Is Ortho-Tri-Cyclen approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in acne?  Does it have the progesterone that has an increased incidence of deep-vein thrombosis (DVT)?
What should you tell a medical student who may have amblyopia and keeps wanting to use her right eye to look at the patient's left eye?
What is considered a normal baseline fetal heart rate?
Why does alcoholism cause hypoglycemia? (blood sugar = 13)
What is considered normal for systolic blood pressure in the elderly in view of recent findings of benefit in treating systolic hypertension?
How do you convert (switch) someone from regular heparin to low molecular weight heparin (LMWH, enoxaparin)?
How should you counsel a young man with no children who wants a vasectomy?
Should you treat white coat hypertension (200/120) or should you go by the home blood pressures (150/80)?
How should you approach leukopenia and thrombocytopenia in a 27-year-old woman on nortriptyline for depression? (white blood count approximately 3.7, hemoglobin approximately 12, platelet count approximately 100, segmented neutrophils approximately 50, lymphocytes approximately 40)
What are some commonly encountered patterns on audiometry besides high-frequency loss, and what does the audiogram of someone with acoustic neuroma and otosclerosis look like?
What is the Poland anomaly?
Can sepsis cause an increase in the indirect bilirubin?
How do you work up possible carcinoid syndrome?
What is nimodipine (Nimotop)?
Is it all right to use Prozac (fluoxetine) (or other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) with imipramine (or other tricyclic antidepressant)?
What is the treatment of choice for Giardia lamblia?
What are some of the specific points about the technique of colposcopy?
At what hematocrit level should you worry about polycythemia vera in a smoker?
What was the reference to that article that found that doing a rectal exam does not affect the prostate specific antigen?
Has cefaclor (Ceclor) been withdrawn from the market?
How do you diagnose cor pulmonale and how do you treat it?
What is the difference between direct and indirect Coombs test and which is done in pregnancy and why?
How do you work up a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of unclear etiology?
Is Famvir (famciclovir) better than acyclovir for Herpes zoster?
What is perichondritis and relapsing perichondritis of the ear?
What partial thromboplastin time (PTT) level should we be shooting for in someone on heparin?
What muscles attach to the greater trochanter?
What causes orange breast milk?
What should the urine sodium be in someone with Addison's disease?  Is 22 consistent?
What are the current recommendations for treatment of serous otitis media?  Antibiotics?  Steroids?  Tubes?
When does the maximal swelling and deterioration occur after an intracerebral hemorrhage?
What kind of splint should you use for a buckle (torus) fracture in a child?
Should the male partner of someone with HPV (human papillomavirus) changes on cervical biopsy have androscopy?
What is a reasonable heart rate to achieve for aerobic exercise?
What is the initial treatment for community acquired pneumonia in the adult?
What are the current cholesterol (National Cholesterol Education Program) guidelines?  When to start diet?  Drug?
Is a pacemaker an indication for subacute bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis?
What are the five diseases that Fifth disease is a part of?
Is bethanechol cholinergic or anticholinergic and what does that mean?
Do you need to give subacute bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis before flexible sigmoidoscopy with biopsies?
What is the sensitivity and specificity of the latest rapid streptococcal tests?
What is a normal amount of fluid and calories for a newborn to take by mouth?
How do you explain Bell's Palsy (peripheral) versus central facial nerve palsy in terms of the anatomy and cross innervation?  There is cross innervation in the forehead and with Bell's there should be involvement of the forehead but how do you explain?
How do you treat nephrotic syndrome?
If someone is allergic to cephalosporins, is it okay to give penicillin?
What is the significance of a 1 centimeter anterior fontanelle in a 4-month old?
Can multiple sclerosis cause dysphagia?
How do you approach the asymptomatic patient with diffuse thyroid enlargement noted on routine exam?  What is the work up?
What would cause a right upper quadrant and epigastric bruit in an otherwise healthy 28 year-old woman?
What would cause white fingernails for 4/5 and the distal nail is red (Terry nails) (patient with liver failure)?
What besides drug interactions would cause a patient to be resistant to Coumadin and have a subtherapeutic prothrombin time in spite of increasing Coumadin doses?
Is a single dose of Diflucan (fluconazole) accepted treatment for vaginal candidiasis (monilia vaginitis)?
What is the drug of choice for inpatient treatment of pelvic inflammatory disease?  Is cefotetan and oral doxycycline adequate treatment?
What does a right ventricle or right-sided myocardial infarction look like on the electrocardiogram?
What are preeclampsia labs (laboratory studies)?
What is a normal scalp pH?
How do you score the Connors Teacher Rating Scale in a child with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)?
What is the clinical significance of distant heart sounds?  Can it be a sign of congestive heart failure (CHF)?
If you are treating someone for hypothyroidism and the TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone) is high (14) and the T4 (thyroxine) is normal, should you go up on the Synthroid?
Is it ever normal to have a full or bulging fontanelle in an infant?
Can a large hematoma cause a fever?
When you are trying to rule out pancreatitis, should you get a serum amylase or lipase or both?
Do angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors aggravate glaucoma (for example, Plendil)?
What medicines can cause ankle edema?  Can nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS)? Can calcium channel blockers?
What would cause chronic exertional chest pain in a young adult or adolescent?
What causes premenstrual spotting?  How do you treat it?
Are there any data to support the claimed association between rapid labors and preeclampsia?
Is a high urine pH any indication of a urinary tract infection?
What would cause a microcytic anemia with a normal ferritin but a low iron and total iron binding capacity (TIBC)?
How do you make the diagnosis of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA)?
Is Polytrim better than sulfacetamide for conjunctivitis in children because of less burning?
Are green stools normal in infants?
What should we be doing to screen for lead in infants and children?  What are the current recommendations of American Academy of Pediatrics, American Academy of Family Physicians, Centers for Disease Control?
What is the clinical significance of mucous retention cysts in the sinuses?  Could that cause a bad taste in the mouth when a patient yawns?
Is it true that men on captopril have a better quality of life than men on enalapril?
How can you tell for a single patient if the before and after treatment scores on the American Urologic Association bladder-neck-obstruction questionnaire are significantly different?
Are there any new treatments for hyperemesis gravidarum?
What should you do if a newborn baby fails to void within the first 24 hours?
How can you tell if a questionnaire or other survey instrument is reliable and valid (reliability, validity)?
How good is the evidence that mitral valve prolapse causes chest pain and what are the characteristics of the pain?
What would cause a low serum iron and iron saturation with normal total iron binding capacity (TIBC) and normal ferritin and normal complete blood count (CBC)?
What are the current recommendations for screening mammography?
What does it mean to have a positive hepatitis B core antibody and a negative hepatitis B surface antigen?
What do pyogenic granulomas look like?
Is the meningococcal vaccine recommended for college students?
Are there any published guidelines or expert opinions on what to do if you get no endocervical cells on the Papanicolaou smear?
What is cilostazol (Pletal) (for intermittent claudication)?
Should moderate elevations (200 - 1000) in triglycerides be treated with drugs or diet?  When and how should you treat isolated hypertriglyceridemia or high lipids but mainly hypertriglyceridemia?
How do you make the Bonferroni correction?
What should you do if a biopsied skin tag comes back "neurofibroma" on the pathology report?
Could an axillary mass in a pregnant woman at 31 weeks gestation be breast tissue?
When should you be concerned about frequent premature ventricular contractions (PVC's) in an adult?
Is donepezil (Aricept) worth anything in Alzheimer's disease?
If you have mild dysplasia on Papanicolaou smear, and the patient is in early pregnancy, is it okay to wait until she delivers to do the colposcopy?
How do you work up a woman complaining of generalized hair loss (alopecia)?
What is a normal white count and band count for a newborn?
What's the name of the medical supply company that will rent Wallaby lights for neonatal jaundice (hyperbilirubinemia)?
What harm does it do to have a low pO2 (for example, 50 or 48) if it's chronic and the patient is not uncomfortable?
What is the best way to prevent recurrent bacterial vaginosis?
What are the implications of Cortisporin otic suspension versus solution when prescribing for otitis externa with perforation?
Should we be using a new injectable typhoid vaccine instead of the four-dose oral vaccine?
If someone has a cervical disk, is it legitimate to try traction first or should you go straight to surgery?
How well-described is the "limbic flush" -- the rash that comes on a patient's neck when they are embarrassed about being examined?
What are the relative potencies (equivalent doses) of various estrogens in hormone replacement therapy versus oral contraceptives versus endogenous production?  What is the estrogen that is normally in the blood?
When you do a lumbar puncture on someone with increased intracranial pressure, exactly what herniates and through what?
Is it true that you can't correct hypokalemia unless you first correct hypomagnesemia?
What is Humate-P (used to treat von Willebrand disease at delivery)?
What would cause a low thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and a low free T4 (thyroxine) in someone on treatment for hyperthyroidism?
What is a normal body mass index (BMI)?
Do you always need to treat a fractured fifth metatarsal with a cast, or is an ace wrap sometimes enough?
How do you workup and treat priapism?
What is the reference to the symptom score sheet for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)?
What are the indications for estrogen cream versus testosterone cream versus steroid creams for vulvar skin diseases and what is the classification of vulvar disease?
What is the reference to that article on standardized reporting of statistics in medical articles?
How high can you let the creatine phosphokinase (CPK) get in someone on Mevacor (lovastatin) before you have to stop the drug?
What is a normal left ventricular ejection fraction?
Can anorexia nervosa cause decreased small bowel motility, delayed gastric emptying, dysphagia?
What is Schober's test for diagnosing ankylosing spondylitis?
Is there any way to correct for hyperglycemia (415) in someone with hyponatremia (130) to see what the sodium would really be?
What difference in arm blood pressures is concerning for coarctation or aortic dissection?
What is the difference between a pinguecula and a pterygium?
How do you biopsy basal cell carcinomas?
What causes adrenal calcifications on plain x-ray film of the abdomen?
What is a Hawkins II fracture of the talus?
Are you supposed to give the Hemophilus influenza B (HIB) vaccine at age 15 months or 18 months or just at age 2, 4, and 6 months?
What makes serum amylase and lipase high besides pancreatitis?
How do you work up and treat fecal incontinence, fecal soiling, fecal leakage in an adult?
What should you do with a benign solitary thyroid nodule in a euthyroid patient?
Does weight loss help obstructive sleep apnea?
What does the psychiatry service like to use instead of Haldol for sedation for sun downing?
What is senile tremor?  Is it the same as benign familial tremor?
What is the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor of choice?
Are there any immunizations a breast feeding mother should not get?  Specifically is MMR (measles, mumps, rubella) okay?
What does the workup for secondary causes of hypertension consist of?
What is a "high" ankle sprain?
What should you do with a patient who has an asymptomatic carotid bruit?
How much aspirin is in a baby aspirin?
What is the significance of mucin clot and fibrin clot on synovial fluid analysis?
What is the treatment for anaphylaxis?  Do you give the epinephrine intravenously or subcutaneously?
What is the maximum dose of ibuprofen?  Can you give 800 milligrams four times a day?
What are the simple tests for urinary incontinence in the elderly ("poor man's cystometry")?
What drug should be used for chemical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation?
What is Dr. X's method of dealing with cystocele and recurrent urinary tract infections?
How do associated symptoms such as cough help with the differential diagnosis of pharyngitis?
What should you do if you have HPV (human papillomavirus) changes on cervical biopsy and nothing else?  Do they need cryotherapy et cetera?  Do they need counseling about condoms?
Is there anything besides antihistamines that can be used to treat physical urticaria (pressure urticaria)?
How long should you give isoniazid to a PPD (purified-protein derivative) converter?
How do you treat oral hairy leukoplakia?
How would you desensitize someone or make sure it's safe to give someone an antibiotic with an iffy history of allergy and you really want to give that antibiotic (orally), in this case, azithromycin?
Is it abnormal for a two-month-old to make a fist with the thumb tucked inside the fingers?
What causes bad breath?
How effective is felbamate (new anticonvulsant)?
How does allopurinol precipitate acute gout?  What is the mechanism?
Should a woman with an uncomplicated lower urinary tract infection have any follow-up after treatment?
Which elderly patients with hyperlipidemia (elevated cholesterol) should not be treated with medications?
What are the American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines on treating hyperbilirubinemia in the neonate?
What is Ultravate cream (Halobetasol)?  Is there anything special about it for use on alopecia areata?
What is Tamiflu (oseltamivir)?
Does chronic use of Dulcolax tablets represent laxative abuse?  Does the bowel become dependent on it the way it does on stimulant laxatives?
Should we use captopril in Type 2 diabetics with microalbuminuria as well as Type 1 diabetics?
What are the options for treating an elderly man, already taking Thorazine, who has insomnia and daytime agitation?
What is the risk of dying from an intravenous pyelogram (IVP) that you should quote to a patient?
What would cause elevations of immunoglobulin G (IgG) and immunoglobulin A (IgA)?
What is Ultram (tramadol)?
What are the comparative sensitivity and specificity of oxytocin contraction test and nonstress test?  If the oxytocin contraction test is more sensitive as Dr. X says, why do the nonstress test first and if nonreactive, do oxytocin contraction test?
What should we be using for menopause (osteoporosis, heart disease protection, breast cancer protection, hot flashes):  raloxifene (Evista, selective estrogen receptor modulators, SERM) versus estrogen versus bisphosphonates (Fosamax, alendronate)?
Is there any way to prevent Anthrax?  How do you test for it?
How do you workup someone who complains of loss of taste and smell (anosmia) over the past 9 months?
What causes hyperhidrosis (excess sweating)?
What is a normal amnionic fluid index (AFI)?
What are the most likely side effects of lithium?
What would cause a low lactate dehydrogenase and low alkaline phosphatase?
Are any streptococcal sore throats resistant to penicillin?
If you see a breast cyst on mammography or breast ultrasound, do you always have to aspirate it or can you just assume it's benign?
What is the normal ratio between crown to pubis and pubis to floor, and what would be consistent with Marfan syndrome?
Which is the drug of choice for male-pattern baldness (alopecia, hair loss), Rogaine (minoxidil) or Propecia (finasteride)?
Do you always need to do a dilatation and curettage if you think someone has had a completed spontaneous abortion?
What causes marathon runner's amenorrhea?  Should it be worked up or treated?
What is octreotide (Sandostatin) and somatostatin?
Is it necessary to give an amnioinfusion if there is only light meconium?
What does ethnography mean?
What are the criteria for an abnormal pregnancy oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT, gestational diabetes)?
How do you make the diagnosis of Marfan's Syndrome?
How do you interpret Troponin levels?
What is transient neonatal pustular melanosis?  What does it look like?  What do you do about it?  (newborn skin lesions, vesicles, pustules)
What should you do about borderline elevated AST (aspartate aminotransferase -- 54 (0 - 41) and ALT (alanine aminotransferase) -- 48 (0 - 45)?  (on a chemistry panel, unexpected)
What is a Hepatolite scan (questionably the same as a PIPIDA scan)?
Is Plavix (clopidogrel) any good to prevent transient ischemic attacks (TIA's)?  What are the indications?
What are "poppers"?
What should you do if someone has dysfunctional uterine bleeding (intermenstrual bleeding) while on oral contraceptives?
What are endomysial antibodies?  Diagnostic test for celiac disease (nontropical sprue)?
What are the causes of an elevated creatine phosphokinase (CK, CPK) and how do you work it up?
What should you do with a blood lead level of less than 10 micrograms/milliliter?
What are the Agency for Healthcare Policy and Research (ACHPR) guidelines for getting plain x-rays in patients with low back pain?
How do you make the diagnosis of hemochromatosis?
What are the causes of low voltage on the electrocardiogram?
Is it okay to use the nicotine patch during pregnancy?
What would cause a low body temperature (95, 96 degrees) besides hypothermia?
Does Claritin (loratadine) cause prolongation of the Q-T interval?  Is it contraindicated with fluconazole or erythromycin?
What should you do to workup and treat possible sepsis in the newborn, for example in a baby whose mother was febrile during delivery (intrapartum fever, neonatal sepsis)?
What is the difference between restless legs syndrome and nocturnal myoclonus?
What is a good nonsteroid cream for psoriasis?
How specific is lid lag and exophthalmos for hyperthyroidism?  Can anything else do it?
Are neck nodes helpful in diagnosing streptococcal sore throat?
Is fluoxetine (Prozac) or similar drugs the drug of choice for treatment of depression in the elderly?
What can you use besides cryotherapy for plantar warts or warts in kids?
What are the questions in the American Urological Association's (AUA) score for prostate symptoms (bladder neck obstruction symptoms, benign prostatic hypertrophy)?  (Also called American Urological Association (AUA) Symptom Index.)
How do you give valproic acid (Depakote) for migraine headache prophylaxis?
What is lipoprotein A, and what are low-density lipoprotein (LDL) patterns A and B, and are they used clinically?
What are the recent JAMA (Sackett) and Journal of Family Practice (Slawson) articles on critical review of the literature and information management?
Is there anything in the literature about allergy testing or desensitization to acyclovir?
What are current recommended weights for adults?
What would cause an elevated free thyroxine (T4) and a normal thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) (on or off replacement)?
If you have lactose intolerance, is it okay to drink yogurt or sweet acidophilus milk?
Is there any way to prevent mucous (mucus) plugs in the airways?
When a porcine aortic valve (pig valve) fails, does it fail suddenly or gradually?
How do you do no scalpel vasectomies (vasectomy) using Dr. X's method?
What is the differential diagnosis of peripheral neuropathy and how would you work-up someone with a peripheral neuropathy, looking for the etiology?
How soon after delivery can you start Depo-Provera?
What antihypertensives are safe while breast feeding?
How do you analyze paired Likert scale data and ordered-scale outcome data?
What are the causes of rhabdomyolysis?
How much of each kind of padding and casting material do you need for various kinds of casts?
What is the trade name of ceftazidime?  What generation cephalosporin is it?  Is it a good treatment for COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) exacerbation?
Is it okay to give doxycycline to a breast feeding mother?
Does the length of symptoms help in diagnosing sinusitis?
Does pregnancy exacerbate chronic fatigue syndrome?
How do you test (screen) for Cushing's disease?  How do you do a dexamethasone suppression test?
How do you classify pelvic fractures?
Can COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) cause hyponatremia?
What is Sandifer syndrome?  (head posturing, torticollis, related to gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), hiatus hernia)
If a mother has von Willebrand disease, do you need to take any precautions with the baby?
Can adults get bacterial laryngotracheitis?
How do you treat hypomagnesemia?
What is schizoaffective disorder?
What are the current recommendations for pediatric immunizations?
Should everyone over age 50 take prophylactic aspirin regardless of whether they have risk factors for coronary artery disease?
What is the reference to that article on the improper use of power analysis after the results are known?
How do you use Zyban (Wellbutrin, bupropion) to help with smoking cessation?
What do you do when the patient complains of vaginal discharge, lots of white cells seen on wet mount and Papanicolaou smear (inflammatory pap smear), cervix red, pH normal, negative wet mount (no clue cells), negative KOH (potassium hydroxide)?
Should there be a doll in the Denver Developmental Screening Test toy kit?
Which is worse, decerebrate rigidity, decorticate rigidity, or flaccid?
How do you grade spondylolisthesis and what are the treatments available and indications for surgery?
What is the acoustic reflex good for (helpful for)?
Does Prozac cause cancer?
What causes intractable hiccups?
In a diabetic, already on an adequate dose of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor for high microalbuminuria or hypertension, is there any reason to continue to screen for microalbuminuria?  Or should you just follow the creatinine?
Can Tegretol raise the gamma-glutamyl transferase?
What are Lewy bodies?
What is a Roux-en-Y hepaticoenterostomy?
What are the criteria for a normal (reactive) nonstress test (NST)?
What is FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization)?
What are the indications for tympanostomy tubes (ventilation tubes, pe tubes)?
What is cyclandelate and has it been shown to be effective for Meniere's disease?
How do you treat Barrett's esophagus?  What is it?  Should patients have endoscopic surveillance due to increased risk of cancer?
How do you write patient controlled anesthesia (PCA) pump orders?
What is Dipentum (olsalazine)?  (questionably a better form of sulfasalazine)
What is a test to diagnose Wegener's granulomatosis (?antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody)?
What would cause a lucency surrounding the heart on chest film?  Normal finding?
How do you report the obstetric history (gravidity, parity) when there are twins or other multiple births?
Is a small rise in creatinine acceptable when starting or increasing an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor?
What would cause acute self-resolving dyspnea and cyanosis?
What antibiotic should be used for a child with pneumonia (pediatric pneumonia)?
What is Still's disease?
What is TCA (tetracaine, cocaine, alcohol)?  Is it effective and safe for topical anesthesia?  (also known as TAC)
What is the new asthma drug advertised on television lately (montelukast, trade name: Singulair)?
What is the normal Q-T interval? (QT interval)
Is a family history of breast cancer a contraindication to hormone-replacement therapy with estrogen?
Does smoking increase the risk of breast cancer?
Is follicular carcinoma of the thyroid hereditary?  What is the hereditary one?
What is the earliest gestational age you would use tocolysis for preterm labor?
What is risperidone (Risperdal)?
How should you work up someone for an acoustic neuroma?  Is there a characteristic audiogram?  If tinnitus only, do workup?  Cause of isolated 40 decibel loss at 500 hertz?
What would cause the expulsion of air from the vagina other than a rectovaginal fistula in a normal woman?
Has the American Academy of Pediatrics set forth guidelines on sleep position in infants in order to prevent sudden infant death syndrome?
What does the United States Public Health Service Task Force say about doing rectal exams for prostate cancer?
How do you know where the outer extent of the transformation zone is?
How often should you get LFTs (liver function tests) and CBC (complete blood count) on someone taking Antabuse (disulfiram) or should you at all?
There was an article in JAMA or New England Journal of Medicine within the past 5 years on the futility of doing CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) in the elderly.  What was the reference and what did they recommend?
In a patient with a completed stroke, what should be used for long term anticoagulation to prevent another one?
What is the significance of cervical mucus ferning in a nonpregnant patient?  Does it occur normally at the time of ovulation?
What should you do with extreme bradycardia (35) in an asymptomatic adult?
When giving measles vaccine to an adolescent, should you give just measles or MMR (measles-mumps-rubella)?  If full MMR (measles-mumps-rubella), why?
When the total cholesterol is low, does it matter if the high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol is also low?
What is the difference between a chalazion and a hordeolum?
Can you treat onychomycosis with ketoconazole?
What statistical method should you use if you want to see if there is a significant trend over time in the incidence of a disease? (time trend, secular trend, ecological trend study, temporal variation)?
What are the indications for getting a C-peptide (C peptide) and islet cell antibodies?  Is it useful to differentiate Type 1 from Type 2 diabetes?
What is Fragile-X syndrome?  Should all mentally retarded adults be screened for it?
What is the maneuver called where you pull your hands apart to accentuate deep tendon reflexes?  Sounds like "jendrysik."
What is the dose of glucophage (Metformin)?
What would cause back pain following intercourse (ejaculation)?  Would prostatitis do it?
What would cause a small anterior fontanelle (8 millimeters at 5 months of age)?
What is the best way to change pills in someone with irregular bleeding on oral contraceptives?  What is the underlying rationale?
How do you give Vitamin K if you want to reverse the effects of Coumadin if the prothrombin time is too long?
What is the name of the lethal virus in the four corners area of New Mexico?
What is the recommended evaluation of hemospermia (hematospermia)?
What do hyperacute (symmetric tall peaked) T waves look like on an electrocardiogram and what is their significance?
How soon can a child go back to school when he/she has conjunctivitis?
When should you use Humalog (insulin lispro)  versus regular insulin?
If a woman has had a subtotal hysterectomy (still has a cervix) and needs hormone replacement therapy, does she need Provera?
What would cause red raised nodular lesions on the legs of a patient with ichthyosis?
What would cause a reduced gag reflex?  Would alcoholism do it?
Is one shot of Rocephin adequate treatment for otitis media?
What would cause eosinophilia on the complete blood count (CBC)?  This patient had a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation and eosinophils were 19%.
What are the different forms of chronic hepatitis B and how do you treat them?  What do the various serologies mean?
What causes disequilibrium?  (not vertigo or near syncope)
What is heel pain syndrome?
Are nerve conduction studies or electromyograms (EMG's) helpful for purely sensory complaints (numbness)?
Is it true as Dr. X says that you need at least 10 patients who have the outcome of interest for each independent variable in the logistic regression model?
When should you do an ultrasound to look at the endometrial stripe versus an endometrial sample with a Pipelle on someone on hormone replacement therapy or someone with postmenopausal bleeding?
What are the indications for vertical banded gastroplasty?
What would cause urinary retention in an elderly woman?
If someone has a peak expiratory flow of 500 and the chart says they should have 600, what percent below 600 is still normal?  Same question for values on full spirometry.
What is dyskinesia?
What is an eccrine spiradenoma?
With tinea pedis and tinea manus (fungal skin infections) is it one foot and two hands or one hand and two feet that are usually involved?
Are needle-like headaches described in the literature?
Are there any controlled trials on different ear drops for treatment of external otitis?
Is Timoptic a beta blocker?
If a normal risk patient has ruptured membranes in labor how long can you wait before giving Group B streptococcus prophylaxis?
What two- and three-drug combinations are reasonable to consider for hypertension?
What is the euthyroid sick syndrome?
Should you work up rectal bleeding if there is an obvious source such as a hemorrhoid?
What medical problems and health maintenance things should you be aware of with someone with Down syndrome both as an adult and as a child?
How do you use the 24-hour urine creatinine excretion to tell if you have had an adequate collection of urine?
Should you get periodic prostate specific antigens (PSA's) to follow someone after prostate surgery, especially a suprapubic prostatectomy?
What is the next step in the workup of amenorrhea if the patient has no bleeding with Provera?  How do you workup secondary amenorrhea?
What is the definition of alcoholism?
What would cause bruxism (teeth grinding) in a 9-month-old and how do you treat it?
Are tear duct plugs (temporary or permanent) a legitimate treatment for dry eyes?
Can hemochromatosis cause skin hyperpigmentation?
Can Candida cause diarrhea?  How do you test for it?
What would cause sudden drenching sweats associated with lightheadedness (near-syncope), weakness, feeling hot?  Is this a vasovagal episode?
What is the histology of the endometrium while on oral contraceptives?
Is the bleeding (spotting) that occurs at the time of ovulation described anywhere?
How big does the left atrium have to be before cardioversion for atrial fibrillation is unlikely to be successful (this patient was 5 centimeters)?
What is a normal temperature for a newborn?
When should we be using troglitazone (Rezulin) for patients with diabetes?  Which patients?  How often to check liver enzymes?
What is the significance of achlorhydria?
How do you approach the situation of a pregnant woman's exposure to chickenpox?
By what mechanism do angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors cause renal failure in someone with renal artery stenosis?  Does it matter if unilateral or bilateral stenosis?
Is a history of superficial thrombophlebitis a contraindication to the use of replacement estrogen?
If someone gets a rash more than 24 hours after the last dose of ampicillin, could the rash (allergic reaction) still be considered due to ampicillin?
Which is better for fever in children, ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil) or acetaminophen (Tylenol)?
What screening tests and procedures should be done with otherwise healthy adults?
How likely is it that someone with a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate but normal c-reactive protein would have polymyalgia rheumatica or temporal arteritis?
Are zinc lozenges any good for the common cold?
A 20-year-old man had his first seizure and has an abnormal electroencephalogram (EEG), started on Dilantin, told not to drive for 6 months, but you find out he is driving one month later.  Should you tell the department of transportation?
Why would you want to get a plasma potassium level as opposed to a serum potassium level?
How do you work up an elevated partial thromboplastin time?
How do you analyze paired count data?
Are there any established diagnostic criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome?
How do you induce labor with prostaglandin gel?  Do you need to stay in the hospital after you place Cervidil?  How do you give Prepidil?  How do you give Cytotec (misoprostol)?
Is treatment with chromium any good for diabetes?
When making the argument for Poisson regression with small counts (example, mean of 2), why can't you invoke the central limit theorem as a reason to do simple linear regression?
What should you do if several members of a family get recurrent streptococcal sore throat?
Does treating versus not treating streptococcal sore throat prevent poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis?
Does diuretic use mess up the usefulness of the urine sodium in the diagnosis of hyponatremia?
What is the differential diagnosis of folliculitis?
What does it mean to have yeast cells in the stool of a patient with chronic diarrhea?
What did the article in JAMA (Williams) say about diagnosis of sinusitis and the value of pain and tenderness in the maxillary sinuses?
Is dietary protein restriction helpful in someone with chronic renal failure?  How much protein should be eaten?
What is the treatment for and how do you diagnose a sterile abscess versus a real abscess following an immunization?
Is platelet function affected by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs the same as by aspirin?  For example, can you give them to someone with a lower gastrointestinal bleed?
How do you write for Burrow's solution?
What oral contraceptives are best for acne?
If someone has nonGroup A beta hemolytic streptococcus on throat culture, and they have a sore throat, should you treat them with antibiotics?
What is a normal prostate-specific antigen (PSA) velocity?
What precautions should you take in someone with an elevated creatinine (chronic renal failure) in whom you want to do an abdominal CT scan, using intravenous (IV) or oral contrast?
By what mechanism of action do thiazide diuretics impair glucose tolerance?
What are the chances that a brain tumor would present with only a headache and no other neurologic symptoms or signs (deficits) on history or physical exam?
What are the names of the three bones that are supposed to line up on the lateral wrist film?
What is Ogilvie's syndrome?
What does Consumer's Union say about blood pressure cuffs?
What causes hypercalcemia (elevated serum calcium) and how do you work it up?
What should you do with someone who has a persistently high sedimentation rate but normal physical exam, CBC (complete blood count and chemistries (sedimentation rate 30-40)?  38-year-old woman with headaches daily.
What are the long term effects of sleep apnea if it's not treated?
What is the differential diagnosis of neonatal seizures and how do you tell them apart?
What is the best way to instruct about fetal kick counts (fetal movement)?  Is it 10 kicks per day or 4 kicks per hour?  What evidence is the use of kick counts based on?
What percent of women bleed with continuous estrogen (0.625 milligrams) and Provera (2.5 milligrams) replacement therapy for menopause?  If bleeding occurs is an endometrial biopsy necessary?  Should a bone density be done first?
Is it necessary to do a bone marrow in someone with monoclonal gammopathy to rule out multiple myeloma?  How often should serum protein electrophoresis be done in someone with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance?
Can diabetic neuropathy present as flank radicular pain?  Would capsaicin help?
Does Celebrex (celecoxib) or Vioxx (rofecoxib) cause heart disease and myocardial infarction (MI)?
Are there any drugs that could cause a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)?
In a diabetic, at what amount of urine protein per 24 hours should you treat with captopril?
What are common adjectives to describe someone's affect?
How do you know when you should induce someone with pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH) without preeclampsia?
Should patients who are status post myocardial infarction (MI) be placed on beta blockers, aspirin and angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors indefinitely?
Would a brain tumor elevate the gamma-glutamyl transferase and cause a low albumin?
Why does the prenatal amniocentesis questionnaire ask if the patient is Asian, Pacific Islander or Alaskan Eskimo?
What do you do about snoring?  Anything to do besides refer to sleep laboratory to work up sleep apnea?
How should medical students and doctors introduce themselves to patients?  What form of address should they use?
How soon after exposure to someone who might have syphilis would you expect to have a positive VDRL (venereal disease research laboratory)?
Are skin tags associated with cancer?
Does palpable purpura have anything to do with thrombocytopenia or is it a different mechanism?
What would cause longitudinal ridging of the fingernails?
If a patient has a sulfa allergy, which drugs should they not take?
How do you tell if a distal fibular fracture is stable in which case you can just use a blue boot?
What is the antibiotic of choice for an elderly patient in the nursing home with pneumonia?
If the purified-protein-derivative (PPD) is positive, should purified-protein-derivatives ever be placed again if isoniazid is used?, if isoniazid is not used?
What are and how common are the risks from first trimester bleeding if the patient goes on to complete the pregnancy?
What is pityriasis lichenoides?
What should you do if the colposcopy is inadequate (cannot see squamocolumnar junction)?
What is the University protocol for lid hygiene for blepharitis?
How do you interpret creatine kinase MB fraction?  Is it the absolute value or the percent of total creatine kinase that you should look at?
How do you treat emphysematous cystitis?
Can dapsone cause a rash?
What are the three kinds of memory and how do you test them?
What is Maltsupex?  (laxative for infants)
Is it normal for an infant to have a diastasis recti (separation of the rectus muscles with protrusion of the abdomen)?
What is nasal ipratropium (Atrovent) and what are the indications?
How do you prescribe sodium bicarbonate to alkalinize the urine in someone who needs to start probenecid?
What are the causes of hypermagnesemia?
Should we be recommending tamoxifen or raloxifene to women with greater than a 1.67% chance of getting breast cancer in the next 5 years according to the Gail model, and what is the Gail model?
Should asymptomatic urinary tract infections in the elderly be treated?
What are the Ottawa knee rules?
What are the Waddell incongruency signs for nonorganic low back pain?
What are normal heel stick blood gases in a newborn?
What would cause an edematous ankle with petechiae (purpura) (unilateral)?
What are normal peak expiratory flow rates in children?
How do you report a Bonferroni correction to the p-value?
What is Carnett's sign?  (Questionably, the patient raises leg and if the pain hurts worse, the pain is coming from the abdominal wall rather than the viscera)
Is ddC (zalcitabine) okay to use as monotherapy for HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) (JAMA, 3/10/94)?
What was that brief article in JAMA about taking care of speakers?
How do you work up a patient with asymptomatic proteinuria?
Is there any information on the use of Celebrex (celecoxib) in migraine?
What is the best way to dose gentamicin?
What would cause aspiration of contrast and failure to cough on a cookie swallow done for the chief complaint of dysphagia?  How do you treat aspiration with failure to cough?
At what angle of scoliosis do you not need to worry about progression in adolescents and what are the indications for referral and how do you follow them?
Can imipramine be used for attention deficit disorder?
How useful is it to use controls when doing tuberculin skin testing (testing for anergy)?
Should you repeat the pneumococcal vaccine (Pneumovax)?
What is the Westermark sign on chest radiographs (pulmonary embolism)?
What is the protocol for giving oxytocin (Pitocin) to augment or induce labor?
Which antidepressant has the least sexual dysfunction side effects?
How do you interpret different ankle/brachial blood pressure indices?  What's bad, what's normal, is there a cutoff ratio for considering surgery?
If an elderly woman has a definite pulmonary embolism on ventilation-perfusion (VQ) scan with no clear source, do you need to search for a source?
What is a reasonable workup for fatigue in terms of history, physical, and laboratory work?
Are there any studies looking at clonidine patches for nicotine withdrawal?
Is there any association between aerobic exercise and amount of bleeding with menstruation or menorrhagia?
What are the relative frequencies of side effects for the different tricyclic antidepressants?
Is there any collagen vascular disease that can present as lung infiltrates and hepatitis?
What is the name of the device that pulls the patella medially in chondromalacia or patellofemoral pain syndrome?
At what age should you expect a strawberry hemangioma to start to disappear?
In patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), should you check a Helicobacter pylori titer (and treat if positive)?
How do you diagnose and treat hepatic encephalopathy?
What causes high magnesium levels?
What causes a monocytosis?
How do you use the 24-hour total creatinine excretion to determine if you have an adequate 24-hour urine collection?
Can presence of the lupus anticoagulant predispose to pulmonary embolism?  Does it cause a hypercoagulable state in the presence of an elevated partial thromboplastin time (PTT)?
What is the name of the syndrome where you get a lot of seborrheic keratoses as a sign of internal malignancy?
What would cause a low alpha 1 globulin on a serum protein electrophoresis?
Is headache or abdominal pain more common with streptococcal sore throat?
What does squinting and eye rubbing mean in an infant or child?
How young is it possible to have a seborrheic keratosis?  (37 years old?)
What drug should you give to prevent a patient from going back into atrial fibrillation once they convert to sinus rhythm?  Diltiazem?  No drug?
Is the mini-pill (progesterone only oral contraceptive) safe to use while breastfeeding?
Can diabetes cause an elevated ALT (alanine aminotransferase)?
What is the drug of choice to treat hypertension in someone with chronic renal failure?
What is the reference to that article that said oral iron was not needed during pregnancy?
What would cause a low serum albumin in a postpartum patient with endometritis?
What does it mean to have tertiary contractions on a barium swallow?  Are they normal?  How do you treat them?
Should we be using Selsun shampoo or Nizoral (ketoconazole) shampoo as first line therapy for seborrhea (seborrheic dermatitis) of the scalp?  Which is the drug of choice?
Can being on prednisone cause a high serum iron?
How does pregnancy affect serum cholesterol levels?
What should you give to a patient in early latent phase or false labor to help her sleep?
What are some nonestrogen treatments for hot flushes in menopause?
How do you switch someone from the oral contraceptive pill to Depo-Provera?
What should you do if a patient reaches into a toilet with a hand with lacerations when feces from a Human-Immunodeficiency-Virus-positive patient are in the toilet?
Is it ever normal to have an S3 or S4 gallop in an otherwise young healthy normal person?
What is dissociative disorder?  What are the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM IV) criteria?
What is a GI (gastrointestinal) motor meal as opposed to just an upper gastrointestinal series?
Is a history of ovarian cancer a contraindication to estrogen therapy?
Is oral clindamycin just as likely to cause pseudomembranous colitis as parenteral clindamycin?
How high does the triiodothyronine (T3) have to be to consider T3 thyrotoxicosis?  How high would Premarin make it go?
Is Parkinson's Disease hereditary?
Is it better to give Lasix (furosemide) all in one dose or to split it twice a day?
What would cause generalized itching (pruritus) especially on the palms and soles without a rash?  Patient was on oral Prednisone.
How often do you need to check creatine phosphokinase (CPK) and liver enzymes in someone on 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors?
What was the reference to that recent New England Journal of Medicine article on not treating high serum cholesterol in the elderly?  How high?  How old?
Should a patient with Osgood Schlatter's disease stop all sports and exercise?  Would would happen if they didn't stop?
Is the Gastroccult test necessary to test gastric contents for occult blood or can you just use the Hemoccult slide?  Would you get a false positive or false negative with the Hemoccult slide?
What is the difference between the glycohemoglobin (total) and the glycohemoglobin A1C on the Laboratory X report compared to the "glycosylated hemoglobin" we used to get from Laboratory Y?
How often should a patient have glucose screening if there is a history of gestational diabetes with a previous pregnancy?
What are the indications for working up possible secondary causes of hypertension?
How do estrogen and progesterone affect serum lipid levels?
What's a good prenatal vitamin?
What are good drugs to treat hypertension in the elderly?
What are the indications and contraindications to thrombolytics and what is the dose?
What would cause a decreased breast milk supply in a lactating woman?
How should we be treating diabetes now that the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial is finished?
What antibiotics and doses should be used to treat streptococcal sore throat?
What is the conversion formula for potassium chloride (KCL) between milligrams and milliequivalents?
What are the causes of and how do you work up a 50-year-old man (or 43-year-old woman) with chronic generalized lymphadenopathy?
Should someone with a strong family history of colon cancer take aspirin to help prevent it?
How do normal values for PO2 (on arterial blood gases) change with aging?
Is ranitidine indicated routinely in stroke patients to prevent stress ulcers?
Does pregnancy make acne worse?
Is there any interaction between terfenadine and desipramine?
In a patient with congestive heart failure, how can you tell whether they have systolic or diastolic dysfunction?
Does obesity affect the efficacy of oral contraceptives?
Is it okay to report someone to the Department of Transportation if you think they should not be driving?
As an expert witness, how should you respond when a lawyer asks long convoluted questions or questions with false preambles?
How does Legionnaires disease present and what is the best way to diagnose it?  Does it involve the liver?  Can it make the transaminases go into the thousands?
What is the prognosis of necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC)?
What should you do in an obstetric patient if her RPR (rapid plasma reagent) comes back 1:8?
What are some of the recent changes in pediatric immunizations?
How high above normal is it safe to let transaminases go (liver function tests, LFT's, alanine aminotransferase, ALT) in a patient on a 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG co-A) inhibitor?  How often to monitor?  Same for creatine kinase (CPK)?
What is the reference to that article that said compazine (prochlorperazine) was effective for migraine?
What is Cronbach's alpha and Cohen's kappa and how do you calculate them?
What are some references to Ulysses syndrome?
How does hypokalemia affect the electrocardiogram?
Why do we need to do a coned-down x-ray of the sella turcica in amenorrhea/galactorrhea if the prolactin is normal?
Can you use a higher dose of Depo-Provera and use it every six months rather than every three?  What dose?
What does an antinuclear antibody (ANA) of 1:40 mean in someone with a low probability of lupus?  What are the criteria for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)?  How should you work up someone with a positive titer?
What was the reference to that article that showed how confounding bias can make one of the best hospitals appear to be the worst?
What are Hawkins and Neer impingement signs (for shoulder pain, rotator cuff injury)?
Are there any new treatments or preventive treatments for influenza?
What is Osler's sign (Osler's maneuver) (still feel artery after cuff pumped over systolic BP) and what should you do if you have a patient with it (pseudohypertension)?
Is there any contraindication to giving the influenza vaccine to someone with a history of Guillain Barre'?
Is it okay to give the rubella vaccine to a breast-feeding woman?
How do you use a 30 cubic centimeter (cc) Foley balloon to induce labor?
How high can you let the pCO2 go in someone with a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation before you need to use a respirator?
How do you treat multifocal atrial tachycardia?
Is it ever okay to not repeat a vasectomy in a patient with a few persistent dead sperm after 6-12 months?
Are there any diseases where doing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is futile and you would not have to offer it as an option?
How do you treat vitiligo?
Which immunizations are okay to give during pregnancy?
What is the treatment for alopecia areata?
What can you do to optimize renal function, prevent worsening renal failure, and be sure you are not missing a treatable cause?
What is new and different about Dyazide (not formulated the same as it was according to patient)?
How do you workup someone with lytic lesions in their bones that could be multiple myeloma or metastatic lesions?
Is the estrogen patch less likely than oral estrogen replacement therapy to cause hypertension?
Why does the X Hospital laboratory check for ascorbic acid in the urine?
At what dose of Premarin cream or other estrogen cream would you need to also give Provera (progesterone) to protect against endometrial hyperplasia?
What would cause a flare of acne in an adult?
Should a woman have bone densitometry to decide if she needs to go on hormone replacement therapy?
If you have seven investigators and seven sets of field notes, one from each investigator, how do you randomly allocate them so that each one gets a different set of field notes to review?
If the C5-C6 disc is bulging, which nerve root does this affect and same for other discs?
What is the Marsh score (having to do with Rh sensitization)?
Does Fiorinal make the birth control pill (oral contraceptive) less likely to work?
What do you do with someone who has unexpected mild elevations of AST (aspartate aminotransferase) and/or ALT (alanine aminotransferase) on chemistry panel?
Is it possible to give a sclerosing agent through a thoracentesis tube in a patient with recurrent malignant pleural effusions?
What is the continuity correction for sample size determinations? (?Yates continuity correction)
What is the best way to sedate someone on a respirator?
What are the indications for working up a patient for a hypercoagulable state?  Should a patient be worked up after a single deep-vein thrombosis (DVT)?
What would cause diffuse muscle weakness?
What is the drug of choice to start with in Type 2 diabetics (advantages and disadvantages of each)?  Should they start with a sulfonylurea or some other drug for their diabetes?  What combination of oral agents are okay to use?
What would cause asymmetric breast tissue in a baby?
What are the options for ruling out renal artery stenosis in a patient with refractory hypertension?
If someone has a family history of ovarian cancer, should they have any sort of screening done?
What is Charcot Marie Tooth Disease?
If the initial human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) test is positive and the Western Blot is negative, does this have any significance and is any follow-up needed?
What is Terazol (terconazole)?
How do you do a weighted average of two proportions?
What are the speech development milestones at 12, 18, and 24 months?
What is the current recommended immunization schedule for well babies?  Specifically, should children get a total of three Haemophilus immunizations or four?
What is the normal liver span by percussion on physical exam?
How do you treat gallstones in pregnancy or cholecystitis?  Do you wait until after delivery?  Is there such a thing as sluggish gallbladder during pregnancy that would cause symptoms?
How do you treat someone with institutional colon (megacolon filled with air)?
What is Dr. X's method of reassurance in hypochondriacal patients?
Is is true that we should stop using sublingual nifedipine for acute treatment of high blood pressure (hypertension)?
How long can you leave a throat culture for streptococcus sitting in the tube before you have to plate it?
